There we go. All right. I'm going to
call to order the Andover Board of
Selectman meeting for Monday, April
14th. It's 7 o'clock. Um, our first
order of business is the pledge of
allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America and
to the republic for which it stands, one
nation under God, indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all.
Okay. Uh the first uh item number two is
public speak and uh we'll start with
Linda Fish. All set. Diane Grer.
There we
go. And we're going to do this part two.
Okay. Uh thank you. Um first I'd like to
say welcome to Carol Lee. Um, good to
see you here and um, welcome to the
board of selection. Uh, we we look
forward to great things coming from you,
Carol. Thank you for joining. Um, a
couple of things. Uh, first, um, at the
last board selectman's meeting, I asked
for an update on the Andover's finest.
Um, I don't see that happening anywhere,
but uh, if you could put that on a an
agenda item maybe for next next week so
we know what's happening with that that
item. Uh, the other update I would like
to hear about is the Bernap the Bernap
clock. Um, where is it? What's
happening? Is it is it happening? Um,
again an update as to what what's
happening with the clock. Um, that would
be good. Uh the the the third and final
thing that I want to talk about a little
bit is um re regarding the community
center uh director. At the last um board
of board of finance meeting uh it was
the um budget meeting. I requested that
the extra $4,000 for the software
package for the director be added and I
was informed that that was the wrong
meeting to ask for that sort of thing.
um it should be to the board of
selectment and I know a couple months
ago the board of selectment had
addressed that item and you were going
to review it again in a couple of months
and I think it's been a couple of months
and I I think it's important that the
director gets the kind of um support and
resources required so she can do her job
um properly um more efficiently
um Uh so I I ask if you can please re
revisit that and see about allocating
those funds. Um recently I had the
opportunity to visit the um the center
and couldn't help but notice how how
busy uh the director is
um looking at the director's report in
your packet uh this month um you can see
why she's busy busy busy. Um I was
impressed with all the items that uh she
has to handle, you know, juggling
everything from, you know, the
transportation, the drivers, the
scheduling, the the book, um bus
repairs, um grant writing, meetings,
programs. Uh there's just a plethora of
things that she has to do. And I think
that if she had the software that that
that would help uh make her time u more
efficient. Uh the one thing I did notice
and um was most impressed with was the
number of residents that just drop by to
to see her to um they have some issue or
concern that they want to talk about.
And no matter what she's doing, she
seems to stop doing that and um address
the the residents. And I think that is a
a wonderful thing. That's the sort of um
customer service that I think that
Andover residents um want and expect.
And I was delighted to see that. Of
course, that takes up a lot of her time,
you know, when you're middle of grant
writing or something and you have to
stop and and talk to people, but I think
that's probably her number one um job is
to um cater to the residents. And um I
think that's a wonderful thing. But
again, if she could get um I think some
support from the board of um selectmen
and um some funding over there for the
software that she needs, that would be
wonderful. So, thank you very much for
your time. Thank you.
iPhone 10, can you identify yourself?
Okay, we'll move on to Liz Latch.
on a
second. I wanted to show my face. Hi
everybody. Um wanted to say hi. Thank
you for all you're doing. Want to
welcome Carol. Um very excited about
your role um at this time. Other than
that, I don't really have anything uh
perhaps later. Okay. Kathy and Mike
Palazi.
Thank you, Jeff. Um, yes, I just have a
a quick thing. Um, the senior advisory
committee met today and would like the
board of selectmen to add to the agenda
this evening to dissolve this committee.
The purpose of this committee was was to
inform the senior director of any
suggestions or complaints to help her
organize and build a senior center with
events, social, and various programs.
She's done this in an ongoing project
whereby she will continue to add new
programs to the calendars and she has
incorporated almost all the programs and
events that took place precoid that I
had put on the agendas in the past.
Therefore, the committee feels the
purpose of the senior advisory committee
has fulfilled its purpose and use to the
town of Andover. And at this time I
would like to thank the committee the
advisory senior advisory committee
Robert Dowy um municipal agent Louise
Goodwin senior Tim Haw assistant direct
senior director Joe King senior George
Knox senior Carol Lee selectman and
myself Kathy Palazzi senior thank
you okay uh Eileen
Kimberly Persan.
Excuse me, Jess. Did you mean Elaine?
No, there's an Eileene. I'll I'll be
right I'll be I'll be right to you. I
know that you're uh somebody on the
other
Okay. Kathleen D. Roer
all said at this time. Thank you. It's
Bill Bill. Sorry. Um Elaine Bukart.
Um hi. Yeah. I want I wanted to welcome
Carol on board to the board of
selectmen. Um and um and I agree with
Kathy Palazi about the uh their their
commission um
uh no longer um needed. Um and actually
the Commission on Aging, we do that. So
it's not the ball's not going to be
dropped. Commission on Aging will go
ahead and pick up that ball. Um because
it it is what we do. we advise. Um,
that's it. Thanks.
Uh, Joanne Eber.
Um, I just wanted to congratulate Carol
on being seated on the board of
selectmen and wish her a lot of luck in
her new role. I think it's great that
your board is now going to have, you
know, a full board as it's been lacking
a member for so long. So, I wish you all
well. And um I thought also I want to
comment on the agenda packet tonight. I
or not the agenda but the the meeting
packet tonight was really full and you
know contained a lot of the items that
you'll be discussing. So I thought that
was great. Thank you
Louise Goodwin.
Yeah I'd like to agree with Kathy as
well Kathy Palazi regarding the 4000.
that would really help Tess and the
center out quite a bit and allow her to
do the some of the more financial
important things like grant writing and
things like that. Thank you,
Bob Hamburger. Nothing at this time.
Thank you. Okay. Uh
8602082345. Is that attorney O'Brien?
Yes, that's me. Okay, you're good then.
Yeah, I'm good. All right, Jay from
public works, did you want to say
anything in public speak? Jay,
I'm good at this time. Thank you. Okay.
Did I miss anyone? Yes,
I couldn't unmute it. That's okay. Um, I
want to thank you for letting me um
speak. Um, my name is Eileene Dowy and I
live in
Manchester and I had separately um held
the positions of both full-time
administrator and full-time program
director at Elderly Housing Management
for over 21 years. Uh, recently I
volunteered at the Andover Community and
Senior Center. Um, while I admire the
dedication and hard work the Andover
director is trying to
accomplish, I've noticed the structural
setup and quite frankly, I believe she's
being set up for failure. Um, I noticed
she does not have the software or the
necessities to let her work
independently without having to stop
what she's doing or take the time to
explain to a volunteer what she needs
picked up at the town hall. the town
hall building next door. Um, from my own
experience, I found myself working
beyond my hours and uh taking cash home
just to meet the demands of the roles.
Operating a community center requires
strategic planning, the right tools, and
focused time for engagement.
Uh I believe without sufficient hours
allotted for this position, it's nearly
impossible to maintain the efficiency
and uh the quality that Andover
community deserves. I hope you can
re-examine the resources allocated to
this position and ensure its success
moving forward. Thank you for letting me
speak.
Okay. Did I miss anyone else?
Okay, if everyone can mute themselves,
that would be great. Elaine, if you
could think everybody else is
good.
Um 6122.
Yes. What's the code?
Uh Eric, if you can help her out, can
you mute her? Uh oh. Okay.
Thank you. Okay.
Um, Carol, welcome. I see you over
there. Um, you happy that you can join
us. Thank you. All right, we'll sit
there and and we'll get started. So, we
have item number three, additions and
changes to the agenda. Anybody have any
changes?
Yes, I have two that I'd like to
suggest.
If you're ready. Yeah. Um, I'd like to
suggest um
8F um update
to AS Gym D stratification
fans and 9
I contract review
of senior center director
position. And when I say contract
review, I'd like to set a date to have
an
um a review with with the director
Tess as we have discussed three months
ago in our last meeting that we voted to
extend her probationary period. I think
it is time now that we have a review
with her in person either by special
meeting or
um in person in the town hall. and I'll
make that her choice, but we need to set
that
date. And I would like that to be within
I'd like that to be within this week or
next week.
Um, is this a contract review or an
employee review?
This would be well we extended her
probationary period and and based on the
discussion in the public in discussion
in public speak today I think we should
have a discussion with her. Um no I I
understand what you want and I
understand we're asking for a date but
you said contract review. I'm asking
well because we extended her we extended
her probationary period um and we could
do a review on that.
Um, if you would like to have a special
meeting with her, that would be fine as
well, but I would like to incorporate
her contract as part of it because we
extended her probationary period.
Okay.
Um, okay. Well, anybody else before we
get to those?
Uh, I would like to ask a question of
the board members. I know we have an
executive session on item 15. Does
anyone understand why we're having it
from a board of selectment
perspective? Anybody know why? I mean, I
I we don't normally put on our agenda
executive session with board of finance
or something that's not detailed as to
exactly what it's related to, even if it
needs to go into executive session. And
before Joanne, I ask you, I see you
raising your hand. I'll get to you. I'm
asking the board of selecting members.
Does anyone know why? I have no idea.
Well, I mean to to expon expand on that,
Jeeoff,
um based on discussions that have
happened, I don't unless it's a
personnel discussion or a contract
discussion, that would be
um private. I I I don't see any reason
why we can't do this in open session.
Okay. All right. Um, if and no one has a
problem, I'm going to let Joy and Eert
speak as to why and then I tend to agree
with Mr. Murray as
usual.
Joanne, you can unmute yourself. Hi, I'm
coming. Sorry, I had to get I'm trying
to hold my I wasn't ready because we're
way down on the agenda, so I was
preparing for later. But, um, let me
excuse me. Um, what we did was we sent
multiple emails to all of you with
plenty of time addressing exactly what
we wanted to talk to you about because I
believe in being very, you know,
prepared, let you know what we want to
talk to you about. Um, so sorry that you
didn't have time to read it. No, no, no.
I read I read all the emails. I read
nothing and and and Joan, nothing in the
emails addressed specifically what it
was. because it was more will you be
available. So what I'm asking is what is
it regarding and does it does it rise to
the level of having to go to executive
session. It's up to all of you.
Everybody knows what is it about? So I'm
going to tell you I'm fine either way
because I'm putting my face out there
with this information. So, there are a
couple things that were personnel salary
related that we had questions about that
we thought might be better served in
private and we wanted to give you guys
time
to know that we wanted to do that and
kind of fit into your time schedule. It
would have been more convenient for us
before budget season, but you didn't
have a meeting until this evening. Um,
so that's one of them. you know, there's
some particular things that
we feel we weren't notified about. So, I
mean, that's about as far as I want to
go. I'm fine with doing it in public if
you all think that's
appropriate. Um, I'll, you know, many
board members are here as well. So, you
know, we'll wait till So, are the items
that we're going to discuss already in
the budget that's going to referendum?
Um, again, there's there's a whole bunch
of things we want to bring to your
attention, but we're going to do it very
short and sweet. I'm not going to get
long- winded. Um, but yeah, there's
there's a couple things that we would
like to ask you about. One particular
that involves union and this and that.
So, I think it's more appropriate to go
into executive for that
one. The other ones, I'm fine to bring
it all out in the public. Whatever you
want.
Um, I would rather it all be in the
public. I dislike having those financial
discussions
in executive session. I promise because
I Yeah, you're okay. You're okay, Joan.
Anybody else have any other issues with
doing in open session?
You're muted,
Jeff. Jeff, you're muted. You're muted,
Jeff.
Well, this is a personal matter. I would
like to see it out in public and let the
public hear what we're going to discuss.
Perfect. Anyone else
and Jeeoff, not to inter just remember
one is a personnel matter with a
discrepancy. I'll tell you what, we'll
keep the executive session and we're
going to keep it really short, but we'll
keep it there and but um I would like to
add All right. So, so Jeeoff, why don't
we why don't we go into executive
session and if we feel that this should
be an executive session discussion, then
let's keep it in executive session. If
it's not, we'll go out of executive
session. We'll just keep the public
meeting going.
You want to go into executive session
right now?
Can we move Do you want to move it up
and then if it's if it's something we
feel it's just stay in executive
session, we leave it in executive
session.
Um
maybe at the end you want Why don't
Well, here why don't why don't we do
this? Why don't all the members don't
Why don't Why don't we move up the board
of finance discussion earlier into the
agenda? We add an item for board of
finance discussion. We'll keep the
executive session at the end for a
personnel matter. But I like to sit
there and say that on the agenda it
should be, you know, executive session,
union contract or union discussions.
There has to be something that allows us
to go into executive session, not just a
discussion with the board of finance.
So,
um, so, so Jeff had 8F and 9 I. I'll sit
there and recommend that we have,
um, six
6A, Board of Finance discussion in
public. Anybody else have any other
items? Okay. So we had um an an addition
for 8A board of finance discussion 8F
AES
distratification fan discussion and 9 I
um contract review community center
director uh establish review date. So
we'll say establish review
date review
date. Community center
director. Anybody have any issues with
those items?
My apologies, Jeff. I'll never out. Can
you just tell us when we got moved to?
Was it 6 I or 6 A? 6 A. 6 A 6. All
right. I got to go get prepared. I
thought I had time. That's fine.
Okay.
Um,
so I'll make a motion that we add all of
those items to our agenda for tonight.
Second. Carol seconded. All those in
favor? I I
Okay.
Um, we're going to move on to uh item
four, uh, board and commission
presentations. Eric, there are none,
correct? There are none that I know of.
Okay. Um,
u, appointments. Item
five. I don't know of any appointments.
Sorry about that. Uh item six,
resignations.
We did have one resignation from an
alternate on the planning and zoning
commission. Uh so we will be looking for
adding one person back to the
PCC. Okay.
Um, do you know the name?
Susan England. Yes. Susan England. There
you go. Thank you, Scott. Um, all right.
Item uh 6A, um, a board of finance
discussion items. Um, Joanne, as
the vice
chairman, sorry we we got you so
quickly, but go ahead. What are the
issues that you want to address with us?
I really don't mind. I yeah, I just had
a little bit of preparing to do. So, but
I I can think about it quickly. So, I
had
um this I'll wait I'm going to give them
all quickly to you. The one that I think
you want to go in executive about I'll
do last. Um we had sent emails to all of
you and then we have our other board
members present. There's something in
your policy handbook called the fee um
employees receive a fee for an insurance
waiver and it's quite high. So, you
know, the taxpayers might might as well
know. You know, we've been trying to
talk about this policy. I believe this
year it's up to
$6,653 of the taxpayers's money if
people don't take insurance. I want it
known that I believe in insurance. I
think it's a great benefit. Um, you
know, that's that's item one. So, we're
trying to get the town to update their
employee handbook policy
um to a more, you know, we did a lot of
research. There's no nothing of this
sort in any of our surrounding towns
except for Hein, which offers about
1,200, you know, give or take. So, we're
all about thinking we could save the
taxpayer some money if maybe we offered
something smaller. Um, so that's item
one. Um, we just thought we were going
to throw all these. So, that's number
one. Then we have item two.
um which
is you know as I've publicly talked
about too we were trying to do away with
the now that we do have and everybody
spoke so highly of her now that we have
a senior centered director community
center director um I made motions at
different places to do away with the
stipend
um the additional stipen that's paid out
um to the tune of it's costing the town
$7,400 this year between retirement
payments and everything for an employee
in the town hall to take on an
additional role. Um it's been filled
great, you know, by the person who did
it. Um volunteering to take on that
service. So that was another item we
were going to bring up tonight to you.
Um I've sent emails about that. Now that
we have a couple employees um in the
senior center, possibly you would think
about um moving those duties of the
municipal agent for the elderly into
that role. Um that's item two. Uh, item
three also had to do with
um kind of the senior center director's
um situation in general, but never never
speaking about an employee in public.
So, you stop, you know, as far as you
want to go. Um, it's about the f, you
know, as you know, we're not HR. We
don't pretend to be HR. We're just the
financial oversight for the town. So,
what we had wanted to do was just
question, and I'm going to turn it over
to Liz in a moment because she's the one
that did a lot of the the digging on
this, and then it'll come back to me as
far as she found the backup of, you
know, what we had voted on last year,
what we had agreed on, and then
something totally different happened.
So, we were going to ask you privately
to explain it to us, but I'm fine with
addressing it publicly. So Liz, if you
may. Um, well, the question is, are we
going to address this openly or do you
want
to do it in in executive session? I
guess she gave a good synopsis. So I
would I would say we'll give you we'll
give you five minutes in executive
session related to a point of order.
It's Tess. I don't think it's related to
you, Tess. Yeah, excuse me. It's related
to her. Yes. Is it related her position?
How can that not be related? I I I guess
I can go on to the board of finance
members. Are all these things in the
budget that you guys have passed? What
are we talking What are we talking about
them today for? Why are they in front of
us today? Why are you bringing it to Why
are you bringing it to
We reprocess it was a process question,
right? And process question. We process
question. Okay. was go ahead you finish
and then I want to direct it since I had
um Right. So yeah, it is it's not about
tests at all. It's about the process and
what happened and the board of finances
role in
um in in our oversight of
um salary determinations, I guess I
would say. And I want to answer Jeff's
question as far as, you know, we did
vote on this last year. We had clear
guidelines, clear salary, clear that it
was going to be full-time. And then and
I think the most important piece, I was
going to write a couple things down, but
hey, I'm doing it off the top of my
head. We we kind of want to know why we
weren't notified. I think that's our
biggest piece. Didn't Didn't we take
Listen, I'm just going to sit there and
say, and Eric, correct me if I'm wrong
for my understanding. We took the the
financial dollars that were available
for that position. We identified that it
would be beneficial to have uh the
senior center director as a part-time uh
role and then we added additional hours
for for another member to sit there and
fill out to try to get additional
coverage. Isn't that the accurate way
that this occurred? Yeah, that is
correct.
Okay. So, the board of finance is asking
us why we made a a managerial decision
to sit there and try to fill the role of
the or to do a better job of manning the
community center. No, I think what we
were wondering and sorry it's very clear
like we it was put upon us and we
debated as a board for a long time you
know based on community outreach things
that the community said whether it would
be a full-time person or a part-time
person you know then we had to because
it's our role to set the salary. So
again, nothing with the managerial part.
There was just never any notice given to
us why there was a change. I mean, maybe
you couldn't find I think I've been told
that there wasn't an appropriate
full-time person or you couldn't hire
someone at the level of the 50,000 that
we had a lot. I would sit there and say
that and and and Joanne, I'm just
telling you, you come to most of our
meetings. We had all of these
discussions in in public. It's not as if
this board has done anything that we
haven't been as transparent as possible.
So, you were on the meetings when we had
those discussions as to what we were
anticipating doing with the position and
the role.
It sort of went from you and I don't
this is fine. I mean, just bringing it
up. It seems like you don't think it's a
big We just wanted to know how it went
from it went from you all deciding and
then it got put in our basket to take
care of, you know, through our town
manager. I know that Liz watched the
recordings and she's the one that had I
remembered it from my mind because I'm
pretty good at remembering that stuff,
but she went back and watched the
meetings. We just So
that's again, this is a done deal and
we're moving on from this. This was one
of the throwins of how this happened
because a couple board members were
interested in seeing how we could have
made a decision which implicated a
financial decision and then everything
changed after that meeting. If we aren't
the final say so and then whatever we
say can get changed at any
point, I would need to know that. Again,
this isn't my hill to die on because I
feel like we've already hired one and,
you know, I will sit back and and wish
for the best for the community, but it
just was one of the things we lumped in
as a board of selectmen/board of finance
matter to discuss.
Liz, do you do you find any I I I would
I would ask um you know, I would sit
there and tell the board of finance and
I would ask you you guys have control
over the dollars that
that you allocate for what goes on
within the town. That's your job. Your
job is to determine the allocation of
funding for all of the various
organizations, not just the town budget,
but the board of education budget as
well. You guys sit there and determine,
okay, here's the amount of money that
you have to you have to spend. And we
had a a line item or a budget item
within the community center that you did
approve. And we allocated those dollars
in a in a in a slightly different way
than
than we had initially presented them to
you. But we didn't overspend those
dollars, did we, Eric? No, we did not.
We did not. So, um, I'm satisfied. No,
that's a good answer. I'm again, this
isn't my hill. There's a bigger hill.
So, so with benefits for the two people
that we have employed there, we did not
expend that line item.
We we don't see that align item with
benefits. So benefits are in a different
area. No, but I'm sorry. When we when
we're spending money on I understand. I
understand. Your question would be did
we overspend our benefit lineup? Did we
spend a total expenditure for that
position at the senior center which
includes benefits?
It Yeah, it was $50,000.
I would be happy to answer
that. When we started this, we budgeted
under the assumption like we normally do
for a full-time employee that we are
likely to end up hiring somebody that's
an N plus one. So, somebody that we're
paying the health care on two people for
a full-time, which is a usual
assumption, meet me. It's a difference
between a person that only covers
themsel and a person that's covered that
happens to have a whole family that we
have to provide insurance. So we split
the difference and assume we're going to
pay about N plus1 which if we're talking
in round numbers is about
$20,000 expenditure for the town.
So, first of all, I asked both of our
top two candidates um and neither of
them was willing to work full-time for
the compensation that we were offering.
So unless we were going to reach down to
our third or fourth candidate, which
none of the people on the the panel that
picked the next senior center director,
remember I was one of five people on the
panel. Um it was not an ERIC decision.
It was a communal decision. Um we were
going to have to do it was going to have
to end up being a part-time position. So
I took the remaining money and so we
hired Tess well under the cap for which
we were allowed to do. Tess was willing
to forego insurance and take fee in lie
of and this gave us a benefits pool of
about
$15,000 to expend plus the difference
between her actual salary and what was
put in by the board of finance. So with
those two we were well under the total
expenses that we allocated. So yeah,
that's what we did.
And and the fact listen Eric Eric, I'll
sit there. We were we, you know, I know
Carol, I know you weren't a part of the
board then. We all talked about this.
There's there's not there's no there's
no way that we as a board did not have
these discussions before the hiring was
made for Tus. But I don't remember the
hiring for Kim. That was that was Yes.
No, that that was I don't remember
discussing that. No, I never heard we
never heard of that. There's never I
never did, Jeff. We never discussed
that. Okay. So, um again, I'm not trying
to listen. We just want to know. First
of all, first of all, all this stuff was
all this stuff was was in public and and
I'll almost guarantee that if we went
back, Jeff, that we talked about Kim and
and hiring an assistant. I Jeff, I do
not remember. If you can find that video
and those records, then I'll be happy to
to admit my my mistake. But Okay. I
never remember ever ever adding a
assistant. Can I can I make um one
point? Sure. Go ahead. Um so I was brand
new on the board. I think it was my
first meeting in October when we learned
that
um the part-time um assistant was going
to be was going to be hired. And I have
no problem with any any of them. They're
lovely people. It's that that wasn't the
point. Um I went back because I was kind
of curious how this all happened. And I
found the um the meeting that the board
of finance had on April 17th who talked
about really debated on on what salary
to come in at. At first it was the 60
and then it was 45 and then it was 50.
And what they talked about was coming to
a fair a fair rate for a new
hire. And when we found this when this
was found out and you do the math, the
new person came in at a at an hourly
rate significantly higher than other
longstanding employees. So that that's
when the question was well wait a minute
shouldn't the board of finance have been
part of the discussion
because isn't that our role that that's
where the question becomes.
So it wasn't like the salary that was
set was based on part time. I'm gonna
sit there and and and say that okay that
that is a fair question and should it
have been addressed at the board of
finance level that this happens? Sure.
But today to come to this meeting when
it's already in the budget or whatever
you've done is in the budget that's
being voted on. What's the point? I mean
you could have done this with us after
you could clarification. You could you
could have done this. Listen, you could
have done this with us for all
transparency either before you passed
the budget and called us and
communicated to us or after the budget
fails potentially because then you have
another shot of doing your your your
review, right? But Jeff, I want to say
with all due respect, yeah, in my time
following the budget and since I've been
very involved in the last five or six
years, gotten myself out there, gotten
invol gotten elected. Great. You have
never once emailed me back. I'm sorry. I
don't want to do this, but you are
trying to put me in a place. I'm just
asking you why we're doing because you
don't respond. I do communicate. I do
call And I did call Eric on Friday about
the big error that I found in the
spreadsheet. I'm trying to be really
respectful of all of you guys, but I am
the best communicator out there. So,
yes, we would have loved to do this
ahead of time. Okay. Sent my email like
two weeks ago and I've gotten like Jeff
Murray got back to me on one and an Jeff
Murray said he was gonna he was going to
be available for executive session.
That's what he did respond to. Yes, he
did. Yeah. And I'm not trying to be a
problem. We really want to I'm just
asking why. I mean, that's my question.
But you're trying to put me in my place
and I'm not having it for all the work
that I do. Well, that's great. I'm I'm
okay. Joanne, you guys have passed a
budget. You have passed a budget. You
have passed a budget. No, Jeff, we
haven't passed a budget yet. We've sent
it to We voted to send it to referendum.
Finance has passed a budget, Jeff. No,
it's sent to referendum. It has not been
passed. Pass a budget. Have the board of
finance voted for a budget to go to
referendum? They wanted to go to public
meeting. That's voting on a budget.
That's what they do. We want to be
respectful. We We just wanted some
answers. We wanted to show up at your
meeting. We didn't want to inconvenience
you. We wanted to ask a few questions.
Okay. Can I just say something? In
fairness to the board of finance, the
way that the charter changed and how we
had to expedite the budget process to
have everything set to vote on May 6
was it really h everything had to move
along quickly. So there probably wasn't
there may not have been a lot of time
for the interaction between the boards
because the new charter says that the
board of finance and the board of
selectmen meet
jointly in order to do this budget
review because when we were doing the
charter review that was put forward to
reduce the amount of hours that Eric had
to come to two sets of meetings and be
talking about the same stuff. So, that
charter was rewritten to expedite the
process to reduce the amount of hours
that Eric had to put in. And I
understand where the board of finance is
coming from. They put $50,000 in for a
salary. And if we're paying 45 and then
another 6700 in benefits, that's and I'm
not saying benefits because that's added
to salary. benefits are in a different
line. And I do hear where they're coming
from because the assistant for the
community center director was not in the
budget. Eric made the statement during
our budget meeting last week that that
money is coming from the medical benefit
line. So there right now it's almost
$5,000 that has been spent and we have
an additional 10 pay periods.
I'm not saying anything. I'm just
putting everything out there to be fair
to everybody all the way around. I hear
what they're saying and they they're
correct with that and adding and so if
we're pl pay paying MS and whatever on
this
insurance stipend or whatever we would
like to call that um that is salary.
Are we over budget on any of those
items?
45. We had
$50,000.
$45,000 on that. I get I get what you're
saying, Carol. I'm asking because
because
listen, when I first got on the board, I
wanted all of the benefits and
everything to be included in the
individual library for the department. I
agree 100% with you on that, Jeeoff.
100%. We need to do that. We need to
move forward to that. We we should but
you know that's that's how the town has
done it. That's how the the benefits
have been posted. It isn't it was just
changed. It was changed now. Yeah. When
I was on the board of finance each the
benefits were with each department.
Every single department. I went through
and looked at all the budgets and it was
divided per department. So towns people
I I would sit there I would sit there I
would sit there and I would go back to
the Bob Burbank days when I was sitting
there in the outside of that and there
was always a huge benefit number. So
it's been that way since I've been on
this board that there's been a huge huge
benefit number that the board of finance
gets to sit there and evaluate and it's
very difficult for the board of finance.
I give I'm not sitting there saying that
this is not difficult but the decisions
that that the board the board and
remember it's not Eric it is the we all
sat there and had those discussions as a
board to sit there and determine how we
were going to deal with the senior
center director and as how we were going
to sit there and and put additional
hours in for for a part-time to try to
cover weekends and other things along
balance. Well, I'm just saying it's out
there for it's it's that's how I
remember it. I'm just I'm only one of
the five members on this board and and I
was on the committee that sat there and
did the interviews for all of the senior
center applicants. So, there were four
four on the interview panel for that.
Uh, I thought it was you, Eric, a rec
commission member, and the It was Ann
Marie Dagel, and the woman from
Coventry. Coventry. So, there were only
four on that panel. Okay. Right. I was
thinking my Okay.
Um, and and it doesn't even that even
that doesn't matter. I mean, I
understand where the board of finance
members are coming from that they put
$50,000 in and how did that $50,000 get
allocated differently? It was allocated
differently because we requested
$60,000 and the board of finance cut us
to $50,000. Okay. And the voters gave us
the voters gave us
Yeah. The voters the voters gave us the
50,000. They agreed with the board of
finance. So, do we have the right to
start reallocating and changing things
around because our viewers voted? Wow.
Because Jeff, we have a budget. We have
a budget that we pass and we need to
hear do that budget. We just don't
ignore what the voters approve and just
do what we want. We did not sit there
and listen, if that's how you're going
to try to run this town, I'm just flat
out telling you, you are going to make
it incredibly difficult to operate
within the parameters. We didn't
overspend the line item. The town is not
our problem. The town has not sat there
and and not done a good job of of
evaluating the budget. Like, we sit
there and work within all of those
means. So Jeff, when you sit there and
say, you know, the town and the board of
finance, we we as a board of selectmen
put in a request for $60,000 that that
we gave the parameters. We said we
wanted this to happen. The board of
finance sat there last year and said,
"No, you only get $50,000." So now you
have to sit there and work within the
parameters of $50,000 to make
it work the best it possibly can for the
town.
And so that was our choice. That's true.
That is 100% part of the decisions. That
is 100% true. But and then if we want to
spend more money, and this is to Joanne
and Liz's point, if we wanted to spend
more money out of fund balance or or
whatever or or from any fund, would it
should have went to board of finance to
be approved. It should not have just
been they just shouldn't have just said,
"Oh, we're just going to do it and
ignore the board of finance." And that's
where I that's where I see Joanne and
Liz's point.
Okay, you can sit there and see their
point, but I'm asking you I'm gonna ask
we can't we can't put a budget board of
finance is doing any line item. The
board of finance is No, the board of
finance is doing their job. They pass a
budget. We pass a budget and then just
ignore what that budget is and not go
back to the board of finance and get
approval for
changes. I'm sorry, but that's improper.
It's fine. That's that's great. Eric,
have we been over budget on any line
item that we did not go back to the
board of finance if required and ask for
the approval on a transfer?
It's possible there's some we haven't. I
mean, I'm not saying we haven't ever
done it. All right. Are we over budget
on anything?
Not significantly. If I may just for one
minute, Jeff, we we just wanted to ask
the process. Like I don't think we came
at it as an upset board. We noticed a
few things. We wanted to call them to
question. You know, we've went round and
round in our meetings on some things and
and so I appreciate the support that
some of the board members are
understanding if we're supposed to look
at these things and as you know, so
thank you. I mean, wherever that stands
because I do have one that is union
related and you know, I don't want to
keep you guys all night. But the other
thing too, has there been any like I
know I sent you all an email about the
mistake that I think I found um with the
employee benefits because of the way
they were put in the spreadsheet um by
employees or whoever put them in with
the employee benefits and the insurance.
how I think we may be able to save the
town like 30,000 there give or take. No
one's Okay. So, but but let's let's go
backwards. Let's go backwards that like
we passed you you've moved a budget
forward, right? So, even if we're over
budget on those separate items, this is
last year's budget. Last year, well, the
the hiring of the community center
person happened in last year's budget.
you know, as far as the changes. Um, and
then we've brought it up in a few
meetings. So, moving forward, there's a
dollar amount in the budget that the
board of finance has, as you have said,
you know, we've dissected, we've talked
about it. So, there's a line item there,
but, you know, enough members had a
concern, you know, Liz doing the most
research on this, um, that we wanted to
bring it to your attention with the
other items that we were going to talk
about. Okay. You know, and Jeeoff, this
is not this is not the community center.
This could be public works. This could
be the school. This could be any town
board or any town department. If if we
if we expend over what is budgeted, they
should go back to board of finance and
ask for additional funds and take I
agree 100% with you. But that's what we
should be doing instead of just
ignoring. We have been I mean I actually
Eric just admitted that we're not doing
that. And at the end of every fiscal
year, we have had we have had requests
that have gone to the board of finance
since I've been since I've been first
selectman. Every end of fiscal year,
we've sent there and said, "Hey, we need
to move some money around and we have to
get board of finance approval on those
items."
The charter had changed with the with
the transfers. We don't see as many
transfers as when I you know, this is my
fourth year, so I'm getting pretty
knowledgeable. it. We had the charter
change which says if it's a transfer
within the department it doesn't come to
board of finance. So they probably move
a lot of that money around which is
which makes it easier. I get that we
haven't had a lot of the big big things
come our way.
Okay.
But in the past we have. You're right
Jeff. Um I just sit there and I I know
within the departments if money's moved
around you know it's like public works.
I mean correct. We we understand.
Um, does anyone else have any other
issues that they have to deal with? I
have to take a quick I have to put
myself on.
So, there's definitely more that we want
to bring to your attention. We're going
to try to go quickly since Jeff went
away. I mean, we did want, you know, I
don't know how the board in general
feels about that waiver. So, I'm going
to talk about it. It's costing the town
a lot of money for people to not take
insurance. It's a huge amount. I mean, I
get you roll the dice with people taking
insurance or not. You know, my kids
stayed on our insurance till they were
all 26. Good for them. You know, who
doesn't? So, it's pretty much, you know,
a no-brainer to I would rather, in my
opinion, if I'm if I'm a seeking to the
board, I would rather take a chance on
someone needing insurance or not. So,
it's either a zero or they need family
insurance because they've got a big
family. It's just the way life works.
That's all. That's my two cents on that.
Okay. I apologize for that.
Um, understood. Does anyone I mean,
listen, my you know, I I was not able to
attend the town meeting, the town budget
meeting. I would sit there and say
there's maybe some confusion as to um we
we'll we'll have to do a better job
communicating to the board of finance as
to what our role is. I would like to sit
there and say to the board of finance
from what I heard about that town
meeting, the board of
finance has the responsibility to all of
the the the
the you have two roles really. You can't
do anything about RAM, but you have the
ability to sit there and tell the school
how much money they can send. The board
of education, you have the the authority
to tell the board of select men how much
money it has to sit there and and
allocate to the town and and how much we
can spend. Those are your two roles as
far as I'm concerned. and and I heard at
the town meeting that that's not what is
considered to be your role that you
don't sit there and and tell this the
the board of education this is your your
dollars to spend. So I'm just saying to
you in public that I would have said
that to you at the town meeting that
that's your job and I wish you were
there within I wish you were there.
Understood. I get it. But our
chairperson I understand our meeting
directing what we could and could not
do. I understand. I understand. And we
we have to have those clarifying for
everybody in public. I know, Jeff, but
we want to talk about the board of
education. I mean, no. I'm talking about
the board of finance. I'm just talking
about the board of I mean, but you want
if you want to go off on a tangent and
talk about the board of educ Yes. The
board of the board of finance can
absolutely go back to the board of
education and recommend that they reduce
their budget. Correct. 100% in their
proving because I know Jeeoff when you
were on the board and and and you were
on the board that's what your board did.
You and Adrian did it 100%. We can
recommend to the board of fine board of
education that they reduce. So so from
my standpoint I just think there's
clarity like I respect the fact that Liz
and and and Joanne that you guys are
interested in in in exactly what you're
allocating, how it gets spent. I have no
problem with that. I do think you have
to realize that any board of selectment,
regardless of I'm on it or not, has to
have some some ability to sit there and
and allocate resources to make the town
as efficient as it possibly can be.
That's a reality. If you don't sit there
and believe that, then then we may as
well, you know, listen, you want to go
off on a tangent. I that's what I wanted
to do with the last charter which was
combine the board of finance and the
board of selectmen in a seven member
board so that we could sit there and
have direction and finances all in one
spot. Yeah, but that didn't happen. So,
let's just drop let's just drop that
discussion right now. That's my tangent.
I let it go. You let me let me have it
for a second. I know. But I wasn't going
off on a tangent about board education.
I was just stating fact to be honest. I
was I'm with you. I'm with you. That's
what we're That's what I'm trying to get
to the board of finances role. And you
know what? I I really understand
Joannne's position because being from
the corporate being from the being in
the corporate world I mean back in the
day probably 15 20 years ago you used to
get a stipend for not taking the
insurance and that's and I don't know of
any company right now that offers any
kind of bonus or stipend for not taking
insurance. So I'm just saying I'm just
saying we should look at that. I'm just
saying they have a point. have no
problem looking at but it's that but
this year but this year that horse has
left the barn. Let's correct. We should
discuss it. It's left the barn and you
know what we're going to have to do,
Jack. Just so you understand. No, we're
looking forward for you. I know. And I'm
giving I'm giving everybody the
understanding. We've made some decisions
to sit there and do that. Then we're
going to sit there and we're going to
re-evaluate how these dollars end up at
the board of finance because let's sit
there and say we removed that statement,
right? We remove that cycle. That means
the wages have to go
up. That's all part of what the contract
negotiation was to sit there and hire an
appropriate person for any position.
That's what we were attempting to do. If
they sat there and saved us money
because the one thing that you're not
realizing is if the person just sat
there and said, "I'm going to take the
coverage, they will cost the town more
money." I I do HR. I get it. Go ahead.
That's great. There we go. That's Yeah,
but but Jeff Je to be honest that that
stipen was offered at the point when we
went from a full uh full medical to to a
high deductible plan.
It was offered at that time. Yes, it
was. It was when Eric revised the
personnel policies. It was revised when
we went to high deductible and it was
finance only.
It was on board. So, so the issue ends
up being that the people that are
offered that have the ability to take
health insurance and it would cost the
taxpayers more money. You can disagree
or agree, whatever. That's the reality
of no one ever takes insurance that
doesn't need it. And I I know that for a
fact. I mean, you may need it. You may
manipulate it a little bit here and
there, but
basically, I'm in favor of a waiver, but
maybe $1,000 a year. Okay. Well, this is
something that we'll we'll discuss for
our next budget because again this whole
budget issue is in place. It's already
out there. We have to deal with it.
Understood. I have one more very
important thing to I understand that
could be changed. People could be
grandfathered in or you can make an
arrangement with the people that have it
already. It's for the future of the town
is what I'm thinking of. I would never
phase out benefits like the state does
with their retirement program too. If
you retire by this date, you'll keep it.
Otherwise, it's being phased out.
It really you're going to phase out
benefits for everybody that's non-union.
No. No, I'm not saying that. I'm just
saying if something is going to be
phased out as far
as the
additional benefits for not taking the
insurance because the person who takes
it also has to pay
14% of their cost which from what I
understand is about
14,000 for single and
22 if you have two and 28 8 if it's a
family. So, okay. But they're only
getting half of a single. All right. So,
so next year when this board sits there
and puts its budget presentation
together with Eric and we want to sit
there and get that done, we'll sit there
and do that for next year. But I think
the board of finance is just trying to
prepare us that that would like is what
they would like to see us do. And we're
going to be starting this process in
five
months again.
Okay. Okay.
Um Joanne or Liz, go ahead. What else do
you have? I think I think I'm prepared
for the next one. So this one involves a
union salary where we saw on the
spreadsheet that someone
was I have now you're in territory that
should be an executive. Right. That's
why I say this
last you've already violated Tess.
You're out of order. Please please
please Tess do not speak right now. This
is a board of finance and a board of
selectment discussion. Well, you've
already violated my rights. You've
already No, we didn't violate your
rights. You can speak in executive. No,
you can speak. You can speak Murray.
Jeff Murray, you can she can speak with
Jeff Jeff Tessa. I would appreciate
Thank you. If you'd mute Thank you.
Appreciate it. I I We'll sit there and
go through it. Um, so, uh, the board of
finance members, we will we will do an
executive session at the end of this,
five minute executive session at the end
of this to sit there and hear out what
you you have related to an union issue.
Thank you. Okay, that's appropriate.
Okay, thank you. Okay, thank you.
Uh, item seven, the town administrator's
report.
Okay, I'm about to share my
screen. Uh hopefully I get the right
document
up. Okay, I apologize for not getting
this to you in advance. I'm going to
walk through this. The most important
thing that's happened in in the last
week or two is we did have a full-blown
OSHA inspection by Con OSHA of all of
the town buildings. That's chewed up a
lot of of my time. Eric, could you zoom
in on that a little bit for me, please?
Sure.
Give me a second.
Sorry, that's too far.
Go up to go up to layout or home and
just do fit to page or No, you can't do
it. That's fine. Good. Can you see it,
Scott? Yeah. Okay. Okay. So, at the
bottom of my administrator's report, I
want to to talk a little bit about my
approach for dealing for this and what I
think we're going to have to do in terms
of work to correct the deficiencies
noted.
Um, and I will separately send you all
of my notes on the OSHA
inspection. Um, so the Bunker Hill
Bridge project. So, we had some issues
with in the very early stages of this
construction because frankly Frontier
dropped the ball on installing the
poles. Um, so I'm working hard to keep
this project on track. I was very
appreciative that both uh Steve Weir uh
through the legislative office as well
as Pura applied a little bit of pressure
to Frontier and finally got them to do
their job.
Um so I'm working hard on that project
to make sure we keep the construction on
track. Um you know that we pay the
contractors and get reimbursed. So, um I
just wanted to talk lay out kind of what
my priorities are and what I'm working
on right now. Um regarding the field and
the work on the pickle balls and other
things, I've got a response to
department of labor. I need to prevail.
They've asked me for more information.
Um we are obligated to uh get a
determination from them ahead of time
whether it's a prevailing wage job or
not. I'm in the middle of doing that. Um
after that we got to finalize all the
RFPs. We got to send them to Department
of Community and Economic Development
for review and approval. And then we
need prove compliance with the small
business, woman-owned business, and uh
minorityowned business contractors, the
percentages, thresholds that we're
required to do. So that is ongoing.
That's a lot of paperwork. That's a lot
of time. Um, fourth thing I re-engaged,
Millennium Builders. Millennium Builders
is
uh the company that is chosen to work
with towns through what's called the
EZIQC. This is a pre uh bid package that
comes through the Capital Regional
Council of Governments. They contract
with Gordian. come up with a taskbased
cost for everything a town is likely to
do. Um, so we're going to quote back out
the senior transportation garage and try
to get that package back out on back uh
to construction. Um, I've asked them for
a series of changes versus what was
originally quoted. The primary one is to
increase the structural loading of the
second floor considerably because the
town doesn't have a lot of storage and
our goal has got to be for the second
floor to provide as much dry cold
storage as we possibly can. So, and I
asked him per a comment by Jeff Maguire
to change the location of the entrance
of the building so it can be entered
straight in uh as opposed to side
loading which was the original one. Um,
and I've asked them to value engineer
that and come back to me with a a plan
for how we can do that better.
Um, later on I'm going to have a request
to you for uh a resubmitt for federal
congressional funding. As many of you
know, last year we went through the
process of asking for a federal grant to
do the generator that would cover the
fire department, the town hall, and the
community center. Um, that was accepted
by uh I did that through Senator
Murphy's office. um that was sent to the
Senate Appropriations Commission. Um it
was a highly ranked program product
project um and it was approved by the
Senate Appropriations Commission.
However, this year there were zero
federal appropriations
um because they never passed the budget
and their continuing resolution
contained no funding for any of those.
So that's going to be a bunch of work.
We are going to have to resubmit that
because we'll need new cost estimates
and we need to subtract out the work
we've done up to this point for the
community center. But that's on track.
I'm working on that. Um, I'm going to
ask you for a motion later on to because
this request for congressional funding,
they are never going to fund it at 100%.
And the money that we allocated for the
community center final fit out will have
to be the town's contribution. The
problem comes in is that if you want to
push the development of the community
center now, we would have to spend that
money from that fund and that wouldn't
be available for match. So, there's
going to have to be a discussion of how
we want to proceed on that. Um, in in
the background, the bids for lawnmowing
services, I I just haven't worked on
that. I have a list of all the areas we
want to mow, but I haven't really gone
out. I have a list of some of the area
local contractors. Um, you know, because
Andover Landscaping is no longer doing
mowing, so it's appropriate to send that
back out to bid. Um, I realize it's late
to be doing that, but frankly, mowing is
just not one of my top priorities right
now. Anybody have questions on that in
terms of what I've outlined for
priorities? That's I have I have some
questions, but I can wait till you get
to the end here. Okay. Okay. So, wait,
wait, wait. You had item seven there.
Installation of the the fans. These
strap fans in it, Jim. Yeah, we can
discuss it. We could discuss that now
and wipe off my motion to add that
agenda item. Sure. So, those are being
installed even as we speak by Lenco. Um,
they're on. They're kind of loud. Um, we
made a decision today to install them
back over the shields, which was not
what we were planning on doing, but you
know, they're plastic, you know, fans,
and one of the fan blades actually came
broken, so we had to quick order one
today for a replacement. They're sending
a replacement that we should have
tomorrow or the next day. Um, and I
don't think they would sustain a hit
from a ball if you kicked a ball in
there and whacked it. So, I made a
decision to reinstall them P above the
existing guards that are there so they
don't take direct hits.
Um, we will install them with enough
chain. So, if it turns out the airflow
isn't proper because they're too close
to the ceiling, um, because there's only
about a foot and a half to the ceiling
from the top of the fan, then we will
adjust and we'll drop them down and take
the risk of them getting damaged. Um, if
anybody wants to look at it or has
anything to say about that, you know,
I'm open to other suggestions regarding
that, but to me, that seems like the
safest install. It's a safe spot for
them. So, Eric, they didn't come
guarded.
No. Okay. Because I thought we I thought
we could get guards for those.
There doesn't appear to be I don't see
anywhere on the bottom where you could
put a guard. Okay. Um so, okay. Yeah.
So, that's kind of where where that is.
Um, we've waited to put up the last of
the acoustic panels because as soon as
Lenco is done installing in the
gymnasium, we're going to drive over one
of the lifts and use the lift to install
the last upper panels of the acoustic
panel. So, with a little luck, we'll
have all the acoustic panels up in the
town hall by the end of the week. That's
that's my goal anyway.
Um, so as far as my office goes and the
building still looks fantastic, by the
way, I really appreciate the all the
work that Willie and Susan have done
keeping the facilities in good shape.
Um, as far as my office goes, um, Carol,
welcome to the board of selectmen and
looking forward to dealing with you in
your new role. Um the last month you
made a motion to authorize test to
submit the grant for the senior
transportation vehicle. Um and but I
guess for whatever reason you decided
you wanted that with my signature. So it
has been submitted with my signature per
the boss motion. Um, you also made a
decision to modify the grand list to
increase by
5% the uh depreciation schedule at each
year. That has been recalculated. That
is in your packet. Um, so that was a
little bit of a um a late effort. Um and
but fortunately we got it before the
meeting and we were able to go to
meeting with what should be the correct
grand list. Um community center update.
The kitchen is largely finished. The
plumber was back in this week uh
securing the sinks and getting ready for
inspections. I have not made any
progress on getting a working hood in
there. Um I just don't have time to
carve out for that right now. I'd like
to get back to that sometime uh this
spring.
Um so we haven't I haven't really made
any progress on setting up the community
room as a permanent meeting space.
That's still on my list. I just haven't
been able to to make any real uh success
on that.
Um, there's still a question in my mind
about how you want to proceed with the
town clerk's office, whether you
actually want to make an appointment of
the person there that's acting as the
assistant comm clerk to the town clerk
or you want to wait and push that to
election. That's a board of selectman
decision. I'm just letting you know.
[Music]
Um, so the board of finance or a member
of the board of finance did ask well
myself to go back and review the
calculations for employee indirect
costs. Um, we're going to get to that,
but they've already pushed it to
referendum, so it's not going to change
per
referendum right now. I'm trying to wait
until the treasurer uh is back um which
should be fairly shortly and then sit
down with them and go over that and get
an appropriate answer back to the board
of finance one way or the other. Uh
there was the the notes from the blight
enforcement officer did not make the
packet. Um Kate sent those out
separately today. Um so you should have
that. Uh we did get through uh approvals
for zoning board of appeals, planning
and zoning commission and wetlands for
the uh project uh at Veterans Field. So
we are working on that. Um nothing
really to say about animal control.
There's a separate project in there for
public works. Jay did want to have a
little bit of a discussion on road work
um you know and whether we proceed with
a contract uh with Jay or not. So as far
as Bunker Hill Bridge that is working
again we had some major issues from
Frontier. Um, I was very happy that both
Steve Weir and Pura uh applied a lot of
pressure and Frontier was in work this
weekend working to relocate their lines.
So, that at least worked. Uh, we're
trying to get keep the project on track
because I really don't want to go into a
second construction cons, you know, both
for cost. Um, even though the town's not
actually paying the cost, we're still
all paying it through taxes somewhere.
and two, I don't want the inconvenience
to
residents. The second thing I want to
talk
about, which we also need to be aware
of, is that the Longhill Bridge um is
getting pretty close to being at the 70%
design stage. They're looking at having
the 70% design stage meeting sometime in
mid May. The company that is actually
designing the bridge is Michael Baker.
Um, and just to remind you what happens
is when you sign up for the design
managed by state, you initially have uh
what was close gentle and miller and is
now BBH because they one bought the
other. Um, you have a company that gets
you through the preliminary design and
does all the leg work for the project.
It then goes to an actual bridge
designer. That's Michael Baker. Um, then
it comes back, we do a preliminary 70%
design. Um, we're going to have some
questions regarding a dry fire hydrant.
That will be dealt with through the fire
department. Um, they actually use Mark
Williams usually to make those
decisions. And then the thing that's new
and that's changed is that the DOT
really wants to move up construction on
that project to the summer of
2026. So basically next year next
summer. um which in absence of anything
else that's good but that means we're in
construction at the same time we're
spending out money for the Culver
project at Bola and I really don't want
to have two projects going both of which
require the town to outlay a lot of
money um and then wait to get
reimbursement because I I struggle to
see where we'd have enough excess money
to do that without capping the town's
reserve, which is the unexpended fund
balance. So, I am asking them not to
move up that construction date. Um, but
they're under a lot of pressure, you
know, to expedite these grants because
they're concerned they're going to start
losing federal money because the federal
government's cutting money from all the
uh all the departments. So, I will keep
go back go back to that one. Yep. Who
was
our our Bazaar Road Culver. Correct.
Who's funding that? The state or the
federal government? The 50% of it. So,
at this point, it's still being funded
50% by the state and 50% by the town,
but it's the same scheme and that we
have to pay the contractor and then we
have to request reimbursement
for, you know, 50%. And what that means
to me is instead of having three million
in construction the actual no we we we
we don't want to have
two my the reason why I was asking the
question is I wanted to
understand the culvert funding and then
the next question I'm asking you can
bzola road wait till 2027
well we can look at that too the the
problem comes in is we've already asked
for one extension Um, so I will have to
reach out to the project manager and
frankly I only learned about this today,
so it's really only been a concern for
me for like the last 3 hours. Um, I
certainly can reach out to our pro
program administrator for the state
local bridge program and ask if we could
push that one if they're really going to
be at Longill Bridge um, ready for
construction in
2026. But what I would say is, you know,
so far on Bunker Hill, they missed their
starting deadline, you know, by 18
months on that one. I struggle to see
how, you know, we're going to get into
September and have already done all the
things we need to do to actually be
going to construction next season
because I mean, understood. we'll get us
an answer at the next meeting, but
you're only going to be able to to
handle financially one program at a
time. Yeah, concur. Concur. Okay. So, in
the packet, there are uh multiple quotes
for cabinetry and replacement of
countertops. As I understand, there was
no decision made at the last meeting.
Um, is there anything you need from me
in terms of making that decision? Um, I
just I wasn't at the meeting. There
wasn't really anything that specific in
the minutes, so I don't know what it is
that's uh pre prevented a decision being
made. Um, basically that decision that
decision was
made about the the $20,000 or the the
the quote on the fire department.
as far as I understand from people who
were there, you pushed that off to the
next meeting um and didn't make a
decision. If I'm wrong in that, I'm
happy to tell the the fire department to
go ahead and execute that.
Well, it won't be the first time that I
thought we did something and then we
didn't. But I actually think we did that
last meeting. Scott and Jeff, we did
talk about it. I know we talked about it
and I actually saw I actually saw the
cabinets. They need to be replaced.
They're in poor condition. If we have to
make a motion tonight to make it happen,
let's make it happen because they're
they they need to be replaced. Okay. And
I thought we did that at the last
meeting because the budget was we had
talked about $20,000
and we had a number. So, if it has to be
motioned, let's I'll make a motion that
we
authorize the replacement of the
cabinets and countertops at the fire
department
uh with a budget not to exceed $20,000.
I'll second that. From the building
maintenance fund, correct, Eric? Yep.
Okay. From the building. I'll second
that. I'll second that. Seconded by Jeff
Murray. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Hi,
Carol. Was that a yes? Yeah, it was a
yes. Okay. Okay. Five nothing. And just
for the note taker or the person doing
the minutes, they need to if it's a if
it's a five zero vote, there's no need
to put people's names against votes. But
when it's it's
a a non
uh majority unanimous unanimous vote
they need to put the names of the people
in our minutes.
Okay. So go ahead. Okay. So as that
takes care of that. The second thing is
expenditures related to the OSHA
violations.
So there are violations we can contract
con we can deal with by
uh just moving stuff. Um we got some uh
violations relative to hoarding
and you know uh too much stuff and too
small an area. But there are some things
that we are going to need to pay money
to correct. Um the first is apparently
there's a state law saying that all
public buildings have to have asbestous
inspections and an an a
asbestous testing and operation
maintenance plan. I have quotes out from
two vendors. One is Mystic Air, which is
what the town has used a bunch of times
and has always been uh the low bid. I
have not gotten the second one back from
Environment Air, which uh in talking
with the town planner, he said has been
uh a low bidder on a number of other
town uh plans. So, uh I'm going to go
through them all and then let's talk
about funding this and how you want me
to proceed. Um question before you get
going on all this is when what is the
timeline that OSHA provides the town to
fix all these?
Uh, so generally speaking, 30 days from
the time we get our official
notification back, unless we argue that
we can't do it in a certain time frame
because of X, either contractor issues
or parts, you know, or things like that.
But what we're trying to do is get as
much of this stuff in process. So when
we sit down with OSHA, which will be in
about a week and a half from now after
we've gotten the official letter um and
requested a meeting, is to be able to
show as much progress towards correcting
these as possible because that's our
best opportunity to negotiate the fines
downward. So my goal to them is to
present a complete plan for addressing
all the violations that we know about in
the town buildings. Okay, let's go. And
the and just to just to just to clarify,
these are findings. They are not the
these are violations, not findings.
Correct. All of them.
I don't know what the difference between
a finding and a violation is. They they
do have findings. They say, you know,
you should correct this. This is an
issue. And then they have violations
which is actually something that needs
to be actually corrected.
So these are things that he identified
to us as violations. Okay, that's all I
need to know. So the asbestous was the
first one. The mystic air quote is 2900
to do the sampling uh testing operations
and maintenance plan for the three
buildings. Um because it's a lot less,
you know, invasive than a pre-demo
clearance. Um the second is the
installation of an eyewash station
because we have the small eyewash
stations there but they don't have a
significant they don't have enough of a
flow rate and a volume to meet OSHA
regulations. So, we did order the Mega
Pack um which is basically just a
pressurized system that sits in place
that's not too expensive. But the
permanent solution is to install an
eyewash
station, you know, in the public works
facility. The issue with that is OSHA
regate that the eyewash has to have
tempered water. So, it can't be hot, too
hot, can't be too cold. And
um and we're going to have to ensure
that that water is portable. So, I
ordered a water test for that facility
because to my knowledge, we've never
tested or considered the water in there
portable. Um and that will uh inform
what we use for filtration system in
there. But the basic quote for an
eyewash station complete is around six
grand installed. Um so it's a big chunk.
Yeah. It's because of the chemicals and
the the
the hazards that we have in there.
Correct. Correct. Now I am hoping they
do not make a determination that the
transfer station also needs an
eyewash station. Uh the last I left
looking at the stuff when I walked
through with him, he didn't feel like
with the equipment that we had there and
and what we deal with it was
appropriate, which is good because
having an eyewash station in a building,
you don't have water and you also don't
heat is problematic. Um so I'm hoping
that doesn't become an issue if public
works is the only place we're required
to do that. Yeah, and I agree with you.
We don't take hazardous materials up
there anyway, so it shouldn't be a big
deal. It should be Yeah, we don't try
to, but unfortunately, you know, we get
stuff stuffed in the blue building
sometimes, you know, because you can't
monitor every bit of the transfer
station at once. So, but it does not
appear that we're going to get a uh any
sort of uh issue drawn with that. Um, so
electric upgrades to the town hall. Um,
he did call out uh two emergency lights
that were either nonfunctional or
extremely weak. Um, when I went back
through and tested all of them with the
electrician, there actually six in the
building that really don't work. So, we
need to replace all the emergency
lights. And there are three rooms in the
town hall where we're over overloading
existing circuits. um and they're not
placed where we need equipment.
And you know, I'll give you an example.
We have one office where there's a power
strip that services like six pieces of
equipment. The power strip is plugged
into an extension cord. The extension
cord is run over to the closest wall and
plugged in. So, you're not allowed to
chain
uh you know, power strips and you're not
allowed to have things that draw lots of
current runoff power strips. So, we're
going to need to do electrical upgrades
in the town hall and we're going to need
to do electrical upgrades in the
library. Um the stairwell in the library
does not have emergency lighting. Um and
uh the inspector basically said the
light from the emergency lighting in the
basement does not illuminate the
stairwell. Therefore, the stairwell
needs it. So, we're going to need to put
that in. And then the area upstairs by
the front desk and by the head
librarian's desk um has way too
electrical outlets um for what it is.
So, they're going to need electrical
upgrades
there. The ones in public works were not
violations. They're just things he
pointed out and said we would be smart
to address. Um, you know, there are
there were a few junction boxes where we
need knockouts put back in. And then
there are multiple pieces of equipment
where we keep plugged in to keep the
batteries of the equipment charged where
we're currently using extension cords.
Um so the proposal for public works is
to add two overhead device boxes with
drop- down cords at the locations where
we use the devices. Um the problem is
collectively this is somewhere around
$25,000 in total work.
Um you know and my question for you is
how do you as a board want to proceed
with this? There isn't enough money in
the building maintenance fund to do it.
Um, my suggestion is that we fund this
out of the building maintenance fund
because I don't think, for instance, the
library has enough money in their
operating budget to absorb theirs.
Public works could probably absorb their
electrical upgrades in their building
maintenance fund, but there's no way the
town uh, you know, maintenance budget
can absorb the electrical work needed
there. So, my suggestion is to take it
from the building maintenance fund and
get this stuff rolling. Um, but it's
expensive enough. You know, I want your
blessing or figuring out where to go
from here.
So, we're doing things that the town
needs done.
Well, one one thing I would question
would be the emergency lights. I mean,
usually those are cheap lead acid
batteries that do go bad. they need to
be replaced every four or five years.
They probably haven't been replaced in
probably 10 to 20. Um it's much much
cheaper just to replace the batteries
than to replace the lights. So I would
definitely look into that. Um because I
do that I do that on a daily basis. Um
the fixtures themselves don't need to be
replaced. That that's a huge cost
savings if we can do that. Well, the the
problem is most of those
fixtures are not
LED and Lenco said exactly the opposite
that given the age of most of those
fixtures, it's cheaper and easier to
just swap out a fixture than it is to,
you know, figure out which ones because
we have three or four different types in
the building and figure out each
battery. Um, I mean, you just go and
look, you open up the cabinet, you see
what size B, you see this the the part
number of the battery, you order the
batteries off Amazon. It's they're easy.
Piece of cake. It's not it's not a big
deal. I just that $6,000 number has a
little bit of heartburn with me. Um, and
no. Yeah, that most of that is not
emergency light. Most of that is snaking
in a total of like 11 additional duplex
outlets into the town hall where they're
needed and figuring out how to feed
them. That's the It's just a lot It's
just a lot easier to put a couple to
replace a battery than it is to re mount
a light on the wall and and and rewire
something. It's it's a lot more labor
intensive to do that than it is just to
replace a battery usually. So, just my
two cents.
Well, as a group, do we have any
problem? I mean, we have the only issue
I have is is are we doing this in
advance to minimize the OSHA
report? And if we're doing it, is
$25,238 too excessive to take out of the
building maintenance fund. I mean all of
these things are with the exception of
the air quote the mystic air asbestous
inspection everything
else
is needs to either get done either you
need to replace the batteries or you
need to sit there and
run wire to create new outlets. Yeah.
Because the problem is, Jeeoff, when you
replace I mean we've got gone through
this scenario before. You go to replace
the fixtures and four or five years
later the batteries are bad bad on the
new fixtures and you're replacing the
fixtures again. So it's
it's it's just a cycle. So you're you're
not wrong, Jeff, but knowing how our
town is, those haven't been replaced in
20 years. Yeah. And the problem is we're
going to replace them. They probably
won't get replaced again unless we
have place unless we put a maintenance
plan in place and actually test them on
a yearly basis. Okay. Um,
go ahead, Eric. No, I mean, you know,
you're not wrong. I mean, I would tend
to standardize on the same as kind of
the newer ones that have been put in the
the town hall, which are at least LED
and will last a little longer. Um my
suspicion is that two to three years
from now we're going to have generator
backup in the building with an automatic
transfer switch and we're not
technically even going to need emergency
lighting for the building. Um if we had
had, you know, an automatic transfer
switch in there that actually worked
right now, um we would not have got
dinged for this in the first place. Um,
but I think, you know, any way we cut
it, we're we're obligated to do this.
Listen, it's a it's no matter what,
you're doing things that are beneficial
to the entire community, right? They
need to be whether it's the whether it's
the library, the town hall, or the
public works building.
Can I just ask, did we get the OSHA
report back, the violation report back
yet, Eric?
uh we have what he told you. We have not
got this is just what he verbally went
over with you. So we don't really have
any official what so what the way you do
this is either myself or Jay walks with
him whenever he's doing an inspection
and everything he points out as a
violation you take a picture of if you
can correct it immediately you correct
it immediately right on the spot. Um, if
not, you take a picture for reference
and we write it down and we walk on to
the next thing. So, I have an itemized
list that I took of everything that he
indicated was a violation. Now, in our
case, there were a number of things
related to clutter where he said
basically, well, I've already cited you
once for clutter. You know, you need to
address it. I'm not going to call this
out as a violation, but this needs to be
corrected.
Um, so there were a lot of things of
that nature. So, in other words, there
were multiple issues of the same thing
he could have cited us for, but he was
pretty clear about what he was going to
cite us for, what he was not going to
sit us for, and there were some things
where he had questions of
um where he had to go back and review
the regs because he wasn't positive it
was a violation or not. Um, in some
cases with the power strips, you know,
he basically took down the serial
numbers and the equipment models for
everything that was on the power strip,
um, and said when they do load
calculations, they'll tell the whether
this is an actual violation or not, but
it still should be corrected, if that
makes sense. So Carol's real issue is do
we wait for the violation report to come
and then correct based off the violation
report or are we proactive and do these
items because you were told and took
pictures. That's for the board to
decide. I would sit there and say it's
$25,000. They're all positive things for
the
community. We have it in the building
maintenance fund.
Let's just do it and be
proactive. If everybody wants to wait
for the report, we can wait for the
report and just tell her to keep getting
quotes on it these items.
I don't have a problem being pro
proactive with it. I was just asking to
make sure that we did fix everything so
that we don't get fined by OSHA.
I know we're going to get a fine, but
I'm just saying, you know, we'd want to
get it fixed right away. So, I know
we're getting fined, but I'm just saying
we don't get
fined if they come back and see it a
second time. And is any of this is any
of this work after we have multiple
quotes per purchasing policy?
Uh, there's nothing in there over seven
grand. But I'm just wondering when you
say electrical upgrades and it's OSHA it
might even it says library different
buildings it might all get looked into
one that's my questions you have
electrical upgrades electrical upgrades
electrical upgrades three times on that
list and that totals
over 500 13,000 14,000
Yep. So, you're going to do multiple POS
to Linko?
Yeah. I mean, I would do I have three
separate quotes from Linko. Okay. I
mean, that's how we would do it. If you
tell me you want to proceed a different
way, if you want to send this, that's
just I'm just asking. I just want to
make sure we're following our purchasing
policy. That's all.
So, if they're all broken up separately
as separate different jobs, they fall
under the purchasing protocol or the
purchasing
I mean together as far as I know
this, you know, there's nothing here
that's high enough that it's got to go
out to
RFP. Um, you know, and the second thing
I would say is that if ever anything is
an emergency to do, you know, dealing
with OSHA, this is as close to an
emergency as I could come up with.
We need to have a vote, Jeff. Well, I'll
I'll vote yes on this, but I want to
make sure in the future that we actually
have some kind of PM on I mean, I don't
I know we got a transfer switch, but
that's not going to address the library
or public works, and we need to make
sure that we make sure that these lights
are functional so we don't get this does
not happen again.
So, Eric, as far as that, the uh
maintenance plan on those, if we can
address that at a future meeting, that
would be beneficial.
Um, I'll sit there and I'll make a
motion that we we
we approve an
expenditure to correct the OSHA
violations from the building maintenance
fund not to exceed $26,000.
I'll second that.
All right. Further
discussion. All those in favor? Hi. Hi.
Hi. Hi. Five. Nothing. Correct. We're
good. All right. Yes. All right. Eric,
what else you got there? Okay. So, uh,
that's it
for my report. Ex. Yeah, that's it for
my report.
Okay. Uh, that was item seven. Item
eight. Um, item 8A, the community center
signage discussion. Um, I have spoken to
Lane Bukart at our last our town
meeting, not the not the budget one, but
the one before that. I have to get with
her. It's this is totally still on me.
So, we're going to move past it unless
somebody else would like to do it. Um,
8B, a discussion of blight and level of
involvement. We actually had some
information in the packet and then we
got another set of documents. Um, from
Wayne.
Wayne, does anyone have any specific
questions on any of the properties?
No, I'm glad to see that he's uh keeping
it updated, though. Um, I I do have a
question, Eric. A lot of the the issues
appear to be people or residents not
taking out permits.
Yeah, we always have that issue. Okay.
Um, when these are
addressed, does the assessor's office
sit there and go back and deal with the
updates that are potentially being made
by the residents and adjust the assessed
value? Yeah, they're supposed to Lynn
gives them a list of all the per permits
pulled every month so the assessor can
go back and review the properties. Okay.
Can we get a a report at a future
meeting that shows us whether uh the
assessor has made an adjustment to a
property after a permit has pul been
pulled or not? So that we
understand there's some escalation in
the assessed
values for people that are doing
improvements to their houses.
My properties suggestion would be to ask
ask the assessor to come on one of your
meetings and explain and walk you
through how he does that. Um, uh, you
can do we can do that and you can invite
them to another meeting, but I still
would like some I mean because if you
look at the assessor's report that's in
our packet later and it sits there and
says these are the functions that we we
do. I would just like to know that and
and maybe it's in a report that we're
already seeing and I'm not understanding
how to read it. It could be in that
report where he says the certificate of
correction or whatever. I would just
like it highlighted for us so we
understand what we're looking at and he
can come on to a future meeting and tell
us how we're looking at it. I'd
appreciate that. He could give us some
examples.
Yeah.
Okay. Okay. And I just have a quick
question on
um 243 Long Hill. Um, apparently, I
mean, judging by the um documentation I
was given today from
Kate, it just said um abandoned house,
holes in roof. Well, the roof's gone.
The roof's been gone for eight months
now. And Yep. And um there's been no
action on it. There's debris everywhere
up there. We don't seem to be getting
any traction on that. Is there any way
we can kind of check on that? See what's
going on?
It appears to be abandoned.
Yes. Can I just
Sorry. Go ahead. Page 88 says the
assessor's office monthly activity and
it shows 22 building permits were
processed. And then we could go and look
at the uh permit link that was
processed. And that gives us also the
number of permits that were reported by
the building department
um for the month of March 2. So it says
right there on page 88 that they
processed
22 building permits. Correct. And that's
the B building permits. What I was after
is are we raising any money from those
building? Do the assessments go up is
what Jeff's asking,
right? So, if they're processing it,
yes, certain things would increase the
value. Then let's find out. I' I'd like
to see it myself. I'd like to see an
assessment before and after.
Right. Okay. Just a question because
when I read the what we're looking at
now from the
blight enforcement officer, I mean a lot
of these
are, you know, they just failed to pull
the permits.
Project completed without permit
approvals resolved, permit secured, and
work inspected. And my question is, did
the assessed value go up on that
property based upon that work? And it's
just a question, and we'll get with the
assessor later to understand that. Um,
yeah, I mean, I've had a bunch of
conversations with John about that
process. and he tries to inspect all of
those properties that pull permits from
an assessor standpoint because it gives
him another look at a house, you know,
and it gets him access to all the other
things that they've done that they
haven't pulled permits for. So, I think
he's actually pretty
proactive in doing that, but I think he
can explain his process a lot better
than I can as to what exactly he does.
But he does do inspections on a regular
basis, you know, on behalf of the town.
Okay. And I'm good with that. I just
want to know how that translates into
revenue. Sure. Understood. Okay.
Um, anyone else have anything else
related to the blight
uh the blight
document?
Okay. Uh, we're going to move on to um
item 8 C, the fire department kitchen
remodel. We've actually already voted on
that, so we're going to skip that. Yeah.
Uh 8D, Veterans Field Renovation Update.
Eric or Scott, which one? Eric Eric went
over it um a little bit. One thing that
we I have I would like to talk to the
board about is that, you know, now we're
at the point we have to do RFPs and none
of us are uh skilled at writing RFPs.
So, we're going to need Eric's expertise
in
that. Just letting everyone know that.
And ask Eric if he's going to have time
to do that. Yeah, I I I know I've got
to carve out a bunch of time short of us
uh having to deal with the ocean
inspection. I think I would have gotten
at least the first thing I needed to do,
which was get back to the Department of
Labor on the open question about whether
this is a prevailing wage job or not.
Um, my intention is to put some time
into it, you know, at the end of this
week, uh, in the beginning of the next
week. Um, part of what I don't have,
Scott, from the commission is I have the
stuff for the paving.
Um, you know, but I don't have a full
list of everything, you know, all the
requirements for the playground. So
there's a bunch of things information
that I don't have that if we're going to
put those RFPs together and as as my
understanding the commission's never
made a decision whether you want to take
the playground portion and put a dollar
value on it and then ask in the RFP for
the most we can get for that or if you
want to lay out all the pieces that you
want and ask for the lowest possible
bid. So you you as a commission are
going to have to decide how you want to
go with that because I don't I don't
feel like that's a Eric decision. That's
a um a field. We can have a meeting. We
can have a meeting you, me and maybe
Christine and uh Mike like on Friday,
the meetings that we used to have and we
can discuss what you actually do need.
I'm happy to get back to the Friday
meeting, morning meeting schedule for
that because we got the paving all done
almost and then we can continue on. Yep.
All right. So, maybe this this Friday.
Yeah, I think I can do this Friday.
Check with me tomorrow morning. All
right. I know I have at least one other
meeting on Friday,
but I'm sure I can carve out 10. Okay.
So, does anyone on the board have any
other questions related to the field
renovations and the the project?
And we did put in the packet all of the
latest
uh you know the latest you know complete
plan set in the packet. So, it's all
there for you to review.
Okay. Uh item 8E updated grand list for
motor vehicles.
Uh that is also in your packet if you
give me two
seconds. The final number for the grand
list was
$316,639. Correction
$316,639,600 which is a decrease of
about 3 million. So, it's now a decrease
of about
0.9%. Prior to making that change, uh it
was at uh just over 2% or right at 2%.
So, it's definitely helped. Um but it's
still there. It's still negative.
Well, it is negative. And we did
select the 90% threshold.
But correct, just so everybody
understands,
the grand list went down. But what that
means to the resident is a homeowner is
potentially going to pick up greater
amount of the tax burden than the motor
vehicle owner. And especially since the
state capped the motor vehicle tax, this
will be the first year I believe that
we're going to have a motor vehicle mill
rate that is less than the property mill
rate. Uh we are just under the cap with
the current budget. So unless somehow
our budget goes up, which doesn't seem
like it's going to be able to, um,
that's we're not going to need to
bifurcate the mil rate. So we're going
to have the same mil rate for the for
the vehicles as we will for the for the
properties, the real property. Okay. But
correct. And the reality is we're still
going to the the homeowners are still
going to pick up more because the car
values have decreased. Correct. Okay.
All right.
Um, anybody have any other questions
related to that
issue? Okay. Um, we had uh eight after
the AES u dstratification fan
discussion. Are we okay with that Jeff
from our previous discussion? Yes, we
are. Okay. Uh, let's move on to nine new
business. Um 9A traffic around the lake.
Eric,
uh that was uh Ann asked that that be
added to the agenda. So I would let her
take that one away.
And you're still on mute. We can't hear
you.
Not sure why it doesn't look like you're
muted.
All right. And while you figured that
out, let's move to 9B, approval for
congressional designated funding
requests.
Go ahead, Eric.
So,
uh, what I'm going to need is approval
by the,
uh, board of finance to resubmit for a
congressional
appropriation to,
uh, essentially do two things. One is
finish off the downstairs of the
community center. And the second is to
uh to install and do the interconnect
and the automatic transfer switches in
the fire department, the town hall, and
the community center and hook it up to
the uh 2,000galon propane
uh supply that we already have.
Okay.
So, this is not this is actually an
approval for a application for this.
Correct. Correct. But remember, I don't
have the approval to submit any grant.
And this is kind of like a grant just to
the federal
government that requires a non that
requires the town to match. And they're
going to fund this somewhere between 65
and 75 or 60 and
75% of the cost of the project. Um the
max they can fund it is
75 but they may cut that down. Um it
depends on the budget year
but reality is you just need to apply
for it. Well yes but I can't apply for
it. Remember you have given me
authorization to apply for any grant
that does not require a town match.
this. But almost every grant that's out
there right now requires a town match.
So what we would do and because we're
still a town meeting, we would sit there
and get the grant and then go to the
town meeting and say, "Are you willing
to do this?" And if they sit there and
say no, then we would sit there and
reject the grant.
Right. But anybody on the board have a
problem with that?
But the board of
selectmen when I first became town
administrator authorized me to submit
grants on behalf of the town without
your permission if they do not require a
town match and that I needed your
permission if they do require a town
match. Okay.
So, I I will sit there and make a motion
that we authorize Eric to apply for
congressional designated funding
requests for the community center.
I'll second that, too. Yeah. Any any
further questions from the board members
on this? Eric, does that have to be done
in the form of a resolution for the
board of selectmen?
Um, they haven't. They didn't ask for it
before. I'm only doing this because the
board has not authorized me to submit
it. It's not, as far as I know, it's not
a requirement on the federal funding
end. Um, you know, it's only a
requirement. It's only a town
requirement because that's what the
board of selectman's resolution allowed
me to do. Right.
Okay. Anyone
else? And Ann, have you been able to fix
your issue or do we have you on
video? No. Um, and it might help if you
can go and
um get on your
phone and and come in and you can keep
your screen open and so we can see you,
but then get on the phone as a secondary
user. That would help. She she could try
she could try logging out again and
getting back in. Yeah, she could. But
before you go in, let's vote on this.
One second.
See you wave. You're gonna wave in. All
right. Um, so we have a vote uh in front
of us related to allowing Eric to uh
apply for congressional designation
funding for the community center. All
those in favor? I
uh Ann says yes. Jeff Murray, yes. Yes,
you're you're not on video so we can't
see your hand. So, yes, we having I'm
having camera problems, too. Yep. I have
nothing. So, Ann, if you want to log off
and then log back on and see if your
your um microphone works, that would be
step one. And then, um also dial in uh
or come in through your phone as well,
just so we have two ways to communicate
with
you. All right.
Um 9C updated speed signage in Andover,
Eric. Uh okay. So this is one to all of
you collectively as the local traffic
authority and that is the department of
transportation has decided that because
so many fatalities occur on town rural
roads that they want to change out all
the speed limit signs on all the rural
roads in towns in Connecticut. Um, so
but before they do that, you as the
local traffic authority have to allow
them to remove town speed signs and
replace them with the appropriate
uh state purchased speed sign that's
more
retroreflective. I think it's a
no-brainer. It's not something that
costs the town. Um, we annually spend
money replacing speed signs. So, if we
can get the state uh to do it without us
putting any time or effort into it, as
far as I'm concerned, that's a win-win.
I don't see any reason why we wouldn't,
but I'm just your designate. Um, so
that's a question for the local traffic
authority. Is public works okay with it?
Yep. The only thing to keep in mind is
that there's a pretty long lead time
when they come up with these directives.
I mean, it's been about four years since
they did the directive that they were
going to add additional
curvage cur road curvage signs in
appropriate places and they've just
notified the town even though we
approved it four years ago that they're
going to do that this summer. So, it's
not like it's going to happen tomorrow,
but nothing will happen if you don't say
yes. Would it be worth it to review all
the speeds on the local roads, too?
Because I mean, some of them seem like
they're high for the area, some areas,
and some of them seem like they're
extremely low.
Do we have anything that's that differs
from on a town road is over 25 miles an
hour? Yes, we have two locations. One is
portions of Long Hill are uh 30 uh maybe
I think maybe even 35 miles I think 30
and then there is a section of East
Street which has a higher speed limit
has a 35 mph speed limit
do you have problem with those speed
limits or do you want to my question
because I mean honestly ly I don't think
anybody does 25 miles an hour on most of
these
roads and I guess we can keep posting
them at 25 and do speed enforcement but
I mean some of them we could probably
reasonably do 20 30 35 miles an hour on
some of these roads and not have a
problem. I'm not saying make them 45 or
50 but I mean it's seems some of these
25 is just a little
crazy. So just just just throwing it out
there. Not saying I'm for it either way,
but does this give us a chance to review
our policy on our town roads and maybe
revise our speed limits? Eric, did you
hear that the state is going to uh
revise the speed limits or Oh, we're the
traffic authority. We can make them
whatever we want. Well, yes and no. You
can make them whatever you want, but you
have to notify the state, number one,
and number two, you have to hire a
traffic engineer, and you have to do a
traffic study on a particular road to
justify a higher or lower speed limit.
And then you can act as your authority
as a local traffic authority to change
that if you so desire. So, I thought
that was only on state roads we had to
have a traffic author uh speed study. On
our own roads, we have to have a speed
study. Correct. All right. Well, I'll
withdraw I'll withdraw my question then.
Engineer to I I was I was always under
the impression that we are the traffic
authority and we could set the speed
limits on our own roads. I I guess the
appropriate stuff.
I mean stop signs and everything. We're
always able to authorize that. So I
don't understand why we would have to
have a traffic engineer authorize the
speed limits when we can put stop signs
and you know whatever other signs
anywhere we want. So correct. Stop signs
are under your jurisdiction. Speed
limits only if uh if you've done the
appropriate. When that authority was
given to the LA local traffic authority,
which is not that long ago because you
used to even on local roads have to
request the state uh you know the office
of the state traffic authority to
investigate an individual road and
decide what the speed limit is which is
what happened with East Street uh
several years ago. The adjoining town I
think he or Bolton not sure which. Ain
Habin requested a reduction in the
speed. They did a study determined a
reduction in the speed was appropriate
and then Andover became the outlier
because it would have been 35 everywhere
but Andover except Andover was 45 and
then it would have gone right back down.
So there would have been a 6 mile
stretch of uh 45 mph speed limit and
then it would have gone down on either
side. Um in that case the state traffic
authority asked you as the local traffic
authority whether you were okay with the
reduction to 35. So it was similar
quarterwide and if I remember correctly
you said yes and the state made the
change. So but now the state a few years
back gave you the authority to do it but
only after you've done your homework and
done a traffic study because They're in
their minds they're thinking about
bigger towns and towns that have
engineers on staff um that can do that
kind of thing. We just don't have that.
Okay. So, okay. Let's just make a let's
just make a motion and get the new Let's
just make a motion. Get the new signs.
Jeff Jeff sat there and said we're not
paying the engineer. I'm tapping out
right now. I'm tapping out. Yes. Okay.
So,
uh I I will make another motion that we
uh make a motion that we
um we allow the state of Connecticut to
uh replace all local uh speed limit
sign.
Second.
Further
discussion. All those in favor? Hi. Hi.
Hi. And are you back with us volumewise?
No, not yet. Yes. Thank you. Okay, we're
good.
Right.
I guess I don't need the phone. No.
Um uh so we're moving on to a 9D Bunker
Hill Bridge update. We've already gotten
that. Um do you want to go back to Anns?
Do you want to go back to Ann's? Oh, I
am sorry. You're right. and 9A traffic
around the lake. Can you hear me now?
Yes. Good. Um well, along with all this
traffic discussion,
um we still have cars driving fast,
especially in areas like around the lake
that have very narrow roads. I've had a
resident talk to me about the speed
there and one
woman, I believe it was a woman, um, has
a dog walking business and she told me
that walks is scared to even walk on the
road because of the traffic that goes so
fast and asked if there was some way
uh, we could do something. And I got to
thinking about it and a speed
hump, not necessarily a bump, but the
speed hump, which is not quite so
severe, but still it would slow people
down. Um, I've seen them in various
other towns. Uh, when I lived in West
Hartford, we had one going around Wood
Pond, and you really had to slow down.
So, they do the job. And I'm thinking
you can
either build it with a black top and
have it made permanently or you can also
buy um a speed hump that is removable if
some work needs to be done on the road
or something like that. I think they're
outrageously expensive and I would
highly
recommend maybe two speed humps on Lake
Road or what the other roads around the
lake that are very narrow and um we need
to slow people
down. That's my comment. Eric, Eric, I
know we've looked at these in the past.
I know we've looked at traffic circles.
I know we've looked at different things
around the lake. um can you just um at
our next meeting give us an update as to
if it potentially can be done and the
the problems associated with those types
of barriers? I know there's a plowing
issue. I know there's other issues. So
just um it's a it's a it's a valuable
thing to look at. I understand what the
people around the lake are talking about
because it is true that there are
certain people that uh there's two
things an from walking the lake as often
as I do. Um it's speed and then there's
the issue of people not understanding
that we have a double line and that they
can move across the double line when
there's no traffic coming in the
opposite direction. There's a there's a
group of residents that can't understand
that that it's a double line. Yes. But
when there's people walking on the other
side of the road, they can go across the
double line when there's no one coming
in the opposite direction. So Eric, if
you can give us just an update on our
next meeting, that would be appreciated.
I mean, you come across the mail truck,
you go around it. You come across the
garbage truck, you go around it on the
double yellow line. There's no And I
know plowing you've got to watch out for
bumps, but I know other towns do it, so
I'm sure it would work. Yeah. So, Eric,
if you can sit there and just give us an
update as to Yeah. positives, negatives,
costs, where it potentially might work,
you know, that would be helpful.
Sure. Great. Thank you. Yeah.
Um so now we were on to um so 8 9d we've
covered 9E location for bike lockers.
Yeah. So I'm going to share my screen
again. I'd like to make this decision or
this
discussion fairly quickly since we
obviously still have a lot of stuff on
our agenda. So, when you as a board
authorized me to purchase the bike
blockers from
uh a grant last year, but you never
authorized me to install them because
you wanted to see where we were proposed
putting them. So, um the first picture
you should see right now should be bike
locker
one.jpeg. Is that what you're looking
at? Yes. Okay. So the the goal is to
place them alongside the sidewalk that
the emergency exit sidewalk from the
community center. And the first two
would be installed alongside the
sidewalk starting right at where the
rail goes. And then there would be a
five-ft gap between them. And then there
would be uh two more um installed for a
total of four of them along that. Um so
I can let me stop this share and I'll
show you basically what I just gave you
a super quick handdrawn sketch. Um I got
distracted with other things. This is
far from an engineered driveway, but
this basically shows the scheme that I'm
proposing, which is put them in adjacent
to the sidewalk. And on the side of the
community room, there is an access plug
and I've discussed it with Lenco and
they can run an electrical conduit under
the slab tie into the existing
electrical connection so we can power
and put the chargers in both of or in
the lockers. So that is kind of what I'm
proposing for this project. Um I just
want to put it on Jay's list. It's not
like we're going to do it right away,
but I wanted to see whether you wanted
more information before you authorized
this or whether I provided you enough
information here.
Does anybody have a problem with the
location?
Have we have we looked at other
locations?
So, the only other real viable
location, you know, in my head is put it
on that raised area just past where the
first
uh where the the single handicapped
parking spot is. Um, so right adjacent
to the community center. Um, you know,
because I we I contemplated putting it
down in the lower lot in the the area
there. Um, and that is still a
possibility, but a that's still a fairly
wet location. And then that starts to
impede the use of that if we're looking
at recreation and setting that back up
in the future for
volleyball, you know, or for horseshoes
or anything like that there. So, I was
trying to keep that lower section clear.
And I thought the upper area kept it out
of the way um of everything we're likely
to do.
Does this have to be decided tonight?
Nope.
I'd like to get to I'd like to go and
see for myself what we're worth talking
about to be honest with you before I
vote on anything. Sure. Are these Can we
Can we get together, Eric, or the rest
of us if whoever wants to get involved
and take a look? Yeah, I'm I'm happy to
walk it with you or Yeah, I just That
way we make all we make an informed dec
I just want to make an informed
decision. That's all. Yep. Not a
problem. What's the size of them, Eric?
Uh, they're roughly 30 in wide by 5t
long.
And how tall?
Uh, well, as tall as a bike, right?
Yeah. So, they're not that.
They're probably 45 inches tall,
something like that. Yeah.
Okay. So, okay. Um, let's get together
and we'll put this on the next agenda to
sit there and once everybody's
comfortable with where they're going.
Anybody else have any questions or
concerns with that? No, but I'd like to
go on the walk with you. Yeah, if if
even you can combine it with your Friday
meeting if you want
because I know Scott would be available.
I'm sure Ann is probably available and
if Jeff's wants to come and Carol.
Sure. Friday, Friday will work. Friday
or Mondays work best for me. Okay. Okay.
You um do you have those already? Do can
you see one
uh did or what? Public works to assemble
at least one of them. I don't know
whether Jay's managed to do that uh or
not. As long as we know the dimensions,
we're okay with I'm okay with the
footprint. As long as we know what the
footprint
is, we can figure it out. Yeah, I can
give you an exact footprint. I can stake
out where I'm talking about putting it
ahead of time if you want me to do that.
You just tell me what you want to see.
Okay. Okay. All right. Uh 9F the ocean.
We've had discussions on 9G the senior
transportation garage. We had
discussions or Eric gave us information
related to that. And as far as the
senior transportation garage, the
request that I had made of Eric is
because of
the g the geography or the land that
we're going in the profile is my request
was to sit there and try to put garage
doors in the upper parking lot so that
we had storage in the second floor
because there's really to me it would be
a waste to sit there and put something
there and not add some storage for the
REC commission or for any of the other
organizations that might need storage.
So that was the thought related to that.
Whether it can happen for the money that
we have available or we need to put
additional funding into it is a
different story and a different
question. You put a dorm around it
wouldn't be no it would be no problem.
Yeah. So where are we with that? Oh, you
already we talked about that. I asked
them for a redesign with a front-facing
dormer long enough to accommodate, you
know, a six foot wide door for loading
there. I mean, I don't think you're ever
going to have a floor designed so you
can drive a vehicle in it, but you could
certainly offload from a vehicle into
there. Yeah. No,
even a double door would be fine. Yeah.
Yep. Even if you had a
separate garage door for each
organization so they could lock up their
own stuff and you don't even have to
have interior walls. You just have chain
like fence in the inside
be anyway. And it would all be non
heated
space. Yeah. Correct. Okay. All right.
uh 98 um a department of public work
discussion uh a road work and b J total
contract.
Yep. So we're getting pretty close to
road work discussion. I think the first
thing we wanted to talk about is just
make sure that the board of selectman
was on board and whether you had any
further questions as a board regarding
what the town's doing for road work. So
I will let Jay take this discussion
away.
Good evening everybody. Can everybody
see me? Yeah. Yep. All right. At least
from the nose up. Yeah. Okay. My on my
screen it's a little shy. So anyway, um
so couple weeks ago we got together with
our uh uh chip seal contractor go over
some roads um and uh with uh a couple
people from the board of selectman and
some from the finance and Eric and
myself.
Um, so first of all, I'd like to talk
about that. Um, and what does the board
of selectmen have? They have any
additional questions about our chip seal
program. Um, you know, in the are we
going to continue? I know there's a lot
of uh concern about how things are done
and and how we can have either a better
program, other alternatives
um and looking for any guidance from you
guys. or you know Jay Jay was on the bus
with you guys and um I think I think
you're um
um how you thought how you uh spoke
about uh the the double chip and how the
damage occurred to some of the roads
that were double chipped was pretty much
spoton. I agreed with you 100%. So I
think uh going forward we should just do
single chip from now on instead of
trying to double chip especially if
we're using that vendor again. Um, I'd
be curious to see what they've offered
to try to repair the the damage that
happened over the winter and what
they're going to what they're proposing
to rectify that. But, you know, I said
the other roads that they single
chipped, they seem to be fine with me
and I think you kind of agreed with
that. So, I mean, those were those are
my thoughts. But um the damage from the
and what Jay what JK what Jay and I
didn't really realize this when we were
um doing the walkthrough. But Jay Jay
basically pointed out that the when they
when they did the single chip the stone
actually the tire tracks wore in through
the we had four tire tracks going
through the the roadway and they it kind
of heaved up in the middle and then they
went and um added another layer on
there. But the oil didn't get through
though that stone that had piled up in
between the the tire tracks. And what
had happened over the winters when the
plows came over, they just pulled all
that up. And so we had Yeah, we had
missing sections of pavement. So we met
with the contractor and and basically
pointed that out. So I I mean I could
let Jay speak to that, but I don't know
what they've
um what they've offered to try to help
fix that and and try to help them up. So
really the The only thing that can
really be done to those uh those areas,
you know, they'll add a little bit more
emulsion and they'll put a little bit
more stone down and and roll it in and
try to seal things up. Uh as far
as trying to uh mitigate the rut, the
ruting that occurred, uh there's not a
lot that can be done until next time we
do work on the road. Um some of that
some of those areas will continue to
wear over time. um you know as we plow
more often uh it might you know come up
again and you know as I stated between
the the two different vendors we've used
in the past um with the doubles chip
seal process with our previous vendor
they honed the road in between
applications where uh you know they put
the first application down and a couple
days later when before the second day uh
second application goes down, they hone
the road. And basically, they have a big
mat of wire brushes and it moves the
stone back and forth in the road and
puts things in place and levels it out
and then they put the next layer of
emulsion down and next layer of stone,
roll it in. So, um
it's it's a you know little bit
difference of application between the
two different companies. Um, you
know, we all know what chip seal it is.
It's not a perfect system. Nobody really
likes it, but done correctly, it works.
Uh, and sometimes things
happen. Uh, as we've all seen. Um, so,
uh, that being said, you know, with the
with the funding that we have and the
condition of the roads and with the
shimming and chipping that we've been
doing, um, I think we should, you know,
keep going as best as we can. Um but at
the same time I also think we've reached
a point and this is going to get into
more discussion for next year and the
year after. You know I think the town
should start thinking about
alternatives. Um, you know, as the roads
get a little bit better or if we do, you
know, a little bit more reclamation, you
know, there's areas where we can do
different
um different types of
uh of road processes, you know,
um, and those will benefit can benefit,
but with that they also cost more. So,
we have to do those things in the right
places. Well, is isn't that something,
Jay, where you bring the options to us
and you sit there and say, "Hey, listen.
Here are the options. This is what you
can do." And then we sit there and try
to determine if it's too much money or
not. And then we sit there and say,
"Okay, this is all the board of finance
has approved for road work. If we do X,
Y, and Z, that's all we're going to
get."
So this year, right now, what I have
planned before July 1, which we talked
about last year, is the remainder of
Long Hill between Gilead and Woodbridge.
Um, Skinner Hill, Gilead Road, Cone
Road, and I have two
bids.
Um, one for $146,600.
This is the chip seal now uh from Comr
and All State for
166428. So we used COMR last
year. Comr's again the low bidder this
year. Um,
and is All State doing the double chip
seal with
the the better application process and
have a single chip seal. Uh, All State I
have doing uh well, actually I have both
companies doing some double. I got to
take the double out. It's going to be
some adjustment. and just long the
section of Long Hill I was going to do a
double chip seal on, but we're not if
we're using one company I won't do that.
Um and uh but anyway, all state uh that
section of Longill is a double.
Um and same with CMR right now. I just
got to back out the difference in cost.
I mean, Jay, what's the advantage of the
double versus the single? I mean,
longevity wise, what's the difference?
Well, when you get a uh Well, yes. Long
longevity of the of the road. If you
recall,
um Hendy Road from uh was it Stanley a
little bit before Stanley? Uh is that
right? Stanley's over there. Um yes.
Okay. So from there to Long Hill, that
section of the road was busted up pretty
bad throughout the whole roadway, not
just in sections. Um, and I double
chipped that whole, you know, basically
that hill going up right to uh Hendy and
right to the stop sign at Long Hill in
Hendi. So that that se that half, you
know, it was all alligator cracked. It
was it was way beyond
um just doing some crack seal and and
chip because it was so bust it was
busted up so long so much. Um so double
chip seal has has a place. Um, and
that's what I was hoping for for uh uh
Pine Ridge and
Shadlow. Uh, years ago we
did, you remember the double chip on Old
Farms that off of Hendy,
right? Yes. So, that road that road was
really busted up bad. We had to do some
corrections, a little shimming around
the catch basins, but basically that
road uh I've had no more complaints on
that road since. I mean, it is a little
rough cuz the road was rough, but I
don't have the uh uh nothing's come
through yet. Um you know, it's held up
pretty well. Um so in the right place,
right application, it does work.
Um, and it and it it'll get you some
life out of a road. Um, till the till
the meantime you can do something else
with it.
Yeah. My only my only thing with goose
and comr is if there's any way we could
spread that stone out before they do
that double chip, it would be night and
day difference. Yeah, we can't. Well,
with comr, they don't they don't have
they don't have the ability to do that.
So, if we're going to do a double chip
on a road, I would chip it once this
year and chip it again the next year
after it's had time to work in. And the
other thing that Comr does is uh
um you know, they do one lane at a time,
so they're overlapping in the middle.
Uh, so you get some of that
overlap residual effect that you saw in
some of the single chip areas that they
did, which isn't that bad. It rolls in.
I mean, over the heat of the summer,
that stuff will pretty much go away. Um
it's just
uh you know
was it just better to spend the extra
$18,000 on a whole day and have them
double chip stuff
if they wash the stone? Yes.
Can't be just be careful. Yes. We had an
issue with the stone and you're you're
going to have issues with stone. It's
not going to be perfect every year. That
year it was bad. We all know it was bad.
And again, our sweeper broke down and we
didn't sweep right away and it just
perfect storm. Um but um
like I said, both are good both are both
are good companies. I you know it just I
have difference opinions one way or the
other. Uh and
um it just
uh I like the product that you know
comes
down the way all states done it in the
past. Their their machine does a full
full road width and if there's if the
road is a little bit too wide they put
that seam on the edge of the road rather
than in the middle of the road.
Um, so it's uh, you know, there's a
there's a there's a slight difference,
but they all do that. They all
accomplish the same thing.
Just a quick question, like per mile, if
we had Comr come back and do a single
chip this year and and a single chip
next year versus All State doing a
double chip this year, how much price
difference is it to have them do it in
subsequent years versus all It's It's
about It's about the same. Okay. It's,
you know, it's uh, you know, it's
575 a square yard for a double chip and
it's uh 250
uh a square yard for a single. So, it's
it's about the same cost. So, it'
actually help us if in the spring if we
found some road issues that we would
have to fix before they went chipped
again, it would actually benefit us
because we would actually see if there's
any damage to the roadway.
Yeah, it's possible. I mean, I, you
know, you single chip a road.
Um,
it's perfect example, Jeff, is uh
Riverside. So some years ago, uh,
Riverside was single chipped and it
went, uh, correct me if I'm wrong, Eric.
Uh, five, six years.
Yeah. Been about four, four, five years.
Five years since we single chipped it.
Okay. We just single chipped it again
last year. Riverside
was toast when it was, you know, when it
was chipped the the first time. So that
that's a perfect example of chipping it
one year and then let it go for a while.
Maybe you chip it next year, maybe you
don't. You know, you you evaluate the
road. So it's not it's not the end all
that we don't double chip. It's just
sometimes I'm just thinking I'm just
thinking if we decide we're going to
double chip a road, have them single
chip it this year, and then just go back
and then just put another layer on next
year. Yeah.
Yep. Yep. in those sections. Yeah, in
those sections that you're thinking
about. I mean, I I I really like I
really like the way Comr did the single
chip. I mean, that the finish was good.
Everything looked decent. And I wasn't
really worried about that seam in the
center of the road. I was just worried
about the double chip. That's where
really see it. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
And to be honest, I don't think the work
did for us last
year was as good as some of the years
they've done it in the past.
Um, you know, I don't think it was
terrible,
but you know, but one of the things I
wanted to talk to the board of
selectment about is every year we do
chip seal. Jay and I take a lot of flack
from a lot of people and residents
complain, you know, and I'm okay with
taking
that that
that feedback and so is Jay, but I just
want to make sure you guys are fully on
board with the concept of chip
sealing, you know, because if if you
guys aren't, you know, on board with it,
I'd rather just not do it, then take all
the the flack for it. Even though from a
road maintenance standpoint, I think
it's something we should be doing. As a
cyclist, I don't like chip seal. Um,
but, you know, given what we budget and
what we can do, that's one of the least
expensive, highest bang for the buck
tools in our arsenal. as a cyclist too,
Eric. I mean, all our adjoining towns
chip seal. So, we we hit them
everywhere. It's just it's the nature of
the beast. And um I think we have to
chip seal, but I think if we just do our
due diligence and try to get make sure
that the stone is washed as good as
possible and we don't have another issue
like we did at Long Hill that a couple
years ago, I mean, you're going to have
some dust, but I think we should
probably try to, you know, just make
sure that the pro the stone is actually,
you know, as clean as it can be going
down. That's all. Well, I I think we do
that, Jeff. I
just I just wish, you know, I wish I
could say there was a better way to do
do this. I just think, you know, it's
sometimes things are going to happen and
um you know, it just as Eric said that
it would be nice that you know,
everybody understands and
that nobody likes this process and but
it does work for us and we can keep our
roads together and keep them keep them
safe and so people can travel around
till we can do something better. I mean,
honestly, I don't think the dust was
that bad the last year. I think it was
fine, but it was just it was minimal.
Yeah, it was minimal. Yeah, but when we
did Yeah, the long it was it was washed
a little bit better and and we swept it
right away. Yep. And I think that if we
just do that, I think we'll be fine. So,
we're not going to get away from chip
sealing anytime soon because we don't
have the money. Mhm. So the question is
Jay, is there a way
to evaluate the stone before they start
working on our roads? Yep. It gets
tested every year. they go out and pull
samples and and but you know when you
when you're when you pull up to a pile a
mountainous pile of stone at a at a
facility and they pull a sample from
wherever or even if you pick it up
yourself it's clean today but they keep
adding stone to it because it keeps
getting used. Yeah. So I can't I you
know you can't be there every time. So
the stone, you know, you you go and take
a sample the month before or a couple
weeks before or they bring you a sample.
It's like, oh, yep, it passes all the
state inspect because they there's
criteria that they have to use. So So
and it changes. So Eric, to your
point, the board for the
last god, since you did Lake Road or
since you did Lakeside, 10 years ago,
no, six years ago, six years ago, um,
we've been supporting of that. The only
time that you really got push back is
when we had problematic materials.
So, I would sit there and I would look
at you and Jay and go, "As long as we
don't have dust on the stone or we don't
have problematic materials, you're not
going to get any significant push back
from the board or you shouldn't get any
significant push back from the board
because I hope everybody on the board
realizes the cost of reclaiming the road
and Jay, what is the cost per mile or
Eric? Cost per mile of reclaim cost
about
$70,000 for Shim and Chip." So chip is
around call it $30,000 a mile. Um and
then uh to do a uh reclamation were in
the neighborhood of
$470,000 a mile.
So did you just tell us $30,000 a mile
versus just chip seal al just chip seal
alone is about $30,000 a mile versus
400,000
470,000 per reclamation. But but road
but roads like Skinner Hill are going to
be significantly higherly higher.
But over the past over the past few
years now four years, right, we've been
doing chimman chips. So we're we asphalt
the bad areas like what you see out on
Skinner right now and Gilead and Cone.
Uh, so the shim and
chip asphalt and then the chip seal over
it is right around $70,000 a mile.
Okay, it's a good option.
So that's, you know,
Okay. Yeah.
So,
so Eric, I sit there and I I don't
necessarily think you're going to get
push back from the board. You're still
always going to get Listen, there is not
a road that's going to get chip sealed
that the residents aren't going to
complain because it's
bumpy. It's the reality. And if we had
more money, we would do it differently,
right? Sure. Okay. So, yeah, you're
gonna have to take a little bit of abuse
just like we have to take a little bit
of abuse. And if we had more money, we'd
do it differently. Understood. We just
wanted to make sure you guys were still
on board with that. Um, and us pursuing
that.
Yeah. So, just just a quick recap,
Longill Road, Skinner, Gilead Cone, and
I've got uh uh Crack Seal Company coming
in. They'll be starting probably before
the end of this month. We'll start on
the chip seal roads and then I got to I
want to try to move into the lake area
and do the main roads on that for crack
seal. So you guys are aware depending on
how the money plays out with that. Um we
got some guardrail uh flex beam
replacement going to be happening on
long long hill. Try to get the remainder
of that done to before June the end of
uh June.
So cone, you're chip ceiling,
correct?
Yeah, cone was cone was probably one of
the last roads that we actually sat
there and paved and we're already chip
sealing it. Well, yeah, cone was in re
is in really bad shape. We shimmed it.
Same thing with Skinner. You can't you
can't uh the road's falling apart. Um, I
have to have to patch it. Have to put
some patch on it to hold it together.
Okay.
All right. Anybody have any other
questions for Jay related to road work?
Okay. Um,
there's there's H a
9HB the J tall contract. What are we
doing with this, Eric?
So, what I would like permission from
the board is
to re-up Jay's contract for the next two
years with everything the same except
for a 3% pay raise this year and the
following year. And Jay will agree to
that, but I'm bringing it back to the
board because that's a board decision,
not an Eric decision. um and to see what
your questions and concerns are about
that.
Are those dollars in the budget?
They're in the budget for this coming
year. Um there's, you know, we're a year
away from having a budget for the
followon year. No. So, you said this
year. So, you're really talking next
year, right? His contract is up
essentially July one. So it will be for
the next fiscal year which we have
budgeted that amount and then an
agreement that we extend that for one
more year.
Okay. Does anybody on the board have any
issues with with that option?
I haven't seen the
contract. Has everybody on the board
seen it? I know I'm new.
I so I am happy to if you're okay with
that parameter prior to me signing I
will send it around to all the board of
selectmen
um so that you can review the contract
but we as a town kind of need to make a
decision right now whether we're going
to retain Jay for two more years or
whether we're not um you know Jay's
agreed to essentially resend his
retirement with the state of Connecticut
um if we'll agree to a two-year
extension of his contract. So that's the
contract expires in July. Correct. Is
current actually do it next month and
then we could all get a chance to review
that. I
if that's what the board
wants, but
you can execute. You can build the
contract with those
parameters. What what Carol's asking is
not wrong. She just wants to review the
contracts. There problem. Is there any
problem with doing that? I mean,
I don't have a problem with doing that
if that's Jay. Does it impact your
timing?
Uh, it just shortens uh time that I have
to look for another job.
No, I don't think we're I don't think
we're sitting there saying we want to
move on from you, Jay. That's not what
the question is. What the question was
is if we're okay with Eric setting those
parameters on the length of the contract
and the increases, and we say, "Sure, go
ahead and do that. Is it okay that we
approve the contract, the full contract
next month?"
Okay. Yeah, I think it'd be good doing
our due diligence and looking at it.
Perfect.
And is has Dennis and his Dennis
reviewed it just to give us okay?
Uh he hasn't reviewed an updated
version. He has reviewed the previous
versions. Okay. So why don't we send a
contract? Why don't we send a copy to
Dennis and then to the board and then
we'll we'll put it on a motion to
approve next next next uh meeting.
Okay. Fair
enough. Okay.
Um there was a nine
I the item that Jeff Murray requested
regarding establish a review date for
the community center uh director and
actually establish a contract review
date for the community center director.
Correct. And based on the public comment
today, I think it's good that we would
have a meeting with the community center
director. let her express what needs she
has going forward.
Um,
and and just review her contract and and
and how she has fulfilled it to this to
this
point. I think it would be good at the
that the board members attended that.
Either we do a special meeting in the
coming weeks or we do it in person at
the town hall. It's it's it's up to you
guys what you want to do. But I think we
should probably do this and and before
we move forward in the future,
could we do this in person? So maybe we
can do a walk through or just meet at
the community center and go over the
needs. So we're there to physically see.
I mean, from what I've heard tonight, we
need we we we all need to have a
meeting. We all need to sit here and
talk about what the needs are going
forward
and and and just review what what we
feel as a a board we're looking
for relative to the contract.
What are we going to do?
I mean, we can put the We can make a
motion to to have a meeting. It's just
Do we want to make a Have a meeting.
Let's go. What date? Pick it. You put it
out there. Pick it.
Anybody else? What? Was it people think
uh it's good good time, date, time,
place? could we maybe do next Wednesday
so if we have any questions we can
forward them over to the community
center director so she's prepared to
answer any those questions. So maybe if
we did it in person next Wednesday if
that works for everyone.
And it's not for me to say, but I'm
going to make a
suggestion that you go to one of the
Friday lunchons
um and interact with the seniors that go
to the lunchons and then schedule either
before or after a meeting with the
community center director.
I'm fine with Friday afternoons or
Friday afternoon. But the thing is is
that they just had the lunch in this
past Friday. So the next one is at the
end of the month. So and and I hear what
you're saying, Eric, just to see how the
people are receiving. But
isn't this to kind of go over like the
needs for the community center and that?
And there's a lot of commotion that goes
on on Friday with the lunch.
Well, what I would say is it's also
beneficial for board of selectment
members to see what programs are
actually occurring,
right? But the senior lunch we I think
we've all been to senior I know Jeff has
been to both have been to multiple.
Scott has been to multiple
and I have been to multiple too. I'm
just saying to go there just have a
meeting. We can forward any questions.
So this way the senior center director
would be prepared to answer any
questions and show any documentation
that's requested.
I'm I I be willing to do it this Friday.
We can go over the bike boxes this
Friday. Scott can have a meet his
meeting with you over the the pickle
ball courts this Friday and then we
could just can do everything this
Friday. So on on Friday, would you say
like in the morning? We would do an
early morning meeting. Whatever time's
convenient for everyone.
First of all, Tess, are you available if
we did it Friday morning?
Um, correct me if I'm wrong, but Friday
is a holiday. The town is closed.
Oh, that's right. It's Good Friday. Good
Friday.
Really? Is the road crew Is the road
crew off on Good Friday? I thought that
was a holiday that was given up.
Uh,
no. Let me look. I'll tell you. I'd have
to look at holiday list. We have it off.
That was it. We gave up. Oh, yeah. Look
at that. Good Friday is a holiday. How
about How about Monday?
Monday during the day, sure, would be
fine. Okay. Morning, afternoon,
lunchtime, whatever is fine with me.
Jeff Maguire,
Monday morning is fine. I I would choose
afternoons.
What date is that? That is the
21st. 21st.
Day after Easter. Day after Easter.
Okay. Listen, this, you
know, Eric, get with Tess or schedule a
time. That's fine. On Monday, if Jeff
Murray make motion to sit there and
schedule it for Monday and get a time
for the the meeting, it works for Eric
and for Tess.
Scott, you said afternoon. Would 10
o'clock in the morning be okay with you?
Scott has pickle ball. That's his
problem. Scott, do you have pickle ball
on Friday morning? I mean on Monday.
Scott plays pickle ball all the time. Do
you see? What time? What time are you
saying? 10 o'clock. 9 o'clock. 10
o'clock.
Monday morning. Yeah. So,
Monday is tougher for me. I could make
it. I do have a 9:30 legislative meeting
and a noon meeting on Monday. I could
beg out of the Crag Legislative
Committee if I had to. Um or I could do
it after 1:30 in the afternoon. So,
those are my commitments. Um
transportation committee I really should
be at. Um the legislative committee, if
I had to blow that off in the morning, I
could. All right. 1:30. Let's go. 1:30.
Okay. Does that work with Tess? Does
that work with Tess? Tess. Does that
work with you? I would have to be at
work on my computer and my calendar to
verify.
You have the food pantry on your
calendar. I know you have another
calendar test. I'm just looking at this.
That doesn't work for me. That's at 5:00
p.m. or food pantry is 5:00 p.m. That
doesn't work for Scott, though, he said.
So, does 10 o'clock in the morning work
for you, Scott? Yeah, much better than
Okay. So, why don't we just at 10
o'clock in the morning works for
everybody, right? Except for Eric.
But Eric, do we Eric, what's I'm sorry.
And what was that? We're We're leaving
for Pennsylvania on Monday to Thursday.
So,
um, I could do I could do maybe 8:00 in
the morning and then leave at 9, but I
can't be late do anything later in the
day. How about 7? We'll do it nice and
early. I'll bring donuts. 8 8 o'clock
works fine. I'll be at 8 o'clock. I
don't care.
Or we could even do this Thursday. That
works for everyone.
I can do Thursday, too. Yeah. Otherwise,
if we did this Thursday, then it would
Ann would be able to be there. Everybody
would be able to be there Thursday
morning.
Yep. Yeah. What time, Scott? What What
time is good for everyone? Earlier the
better. Earlier the better. Yep. Well, I
didn't until 8:30. 8:30. So, if we said
9:00, Scott, are you in pickle ball
then? No. No. Okay. All right. I I do
just have to ask what's one what's the
purpose and two what's um what's the
rush
it's it's the it's the time that we we
we extended your uh probationary period
and we're it's at the end of that and we
want and and based on tonight we want to
hear what you have to say for needs to
grow the community center. Okay.
I got to say I was at the community
center today. I spent some time with
Tess and I was very impressed. This is
this is an open meeting. This is this
this is just an open discussion between
the board of selectment and the
community center director.
It is that right now or just what's
coming on Thursday? This is on Thursday.
Thursday at 9. Right. Thursday 9:00 a.m.
Okay. Okay. So, I'm assuming based on
your replies that this will be noticed
as a public meeting or are you planning
on doing this in executive session?
And we do have a commission on aging
meeting that morning. So, I would just
have to verify the
time. I believe that's Thursday. It may
be on Monday, but let me just make sure.
So, we would notice it as a public
meeting and then if um Tess wanted it to
be executive session, then that would be
what we would do.
But it would definitely be a public
meeting. It it has to be you're a board
of selection. You're meeting as a group,
right?
So, anybody could show
So we adding that to our calendars.
I am
okay. So, do we need we need somebody to
make a motion for Thursday at 9:00 a.m.
for this special meeting and then the
notes will go out in town hall. Correct.
Uh it'll have to get posted. Yep. Put on
the website. Uh yeah, tomorrow's
Tuesday, so we're good.
I would like to make a motion to have
a community center contract discussion
meeting between community center
director Tess Grouse and the board of
selectman on Thursday at 9:00 a.m.
We got to put the date though. Thursday.
Sorry.
Thursday is the 17th 18. April
17th at 9:00 a.m. in the community
center.
I'll second.
Further discussion.
No, I I just got to say I think Eric
should sit there and do the evaluation
and then we should review the evaluation
and then we should sit there and have a
meeting with the with
the director and review what can be done
better and how we all can work together
and help her to do it better. So that's
just my This is what we're trying to do,
Jeff. And this is this is avoiding
what's happened this is avoiding what
happened today with the board of
finance. If we have some direct
discussions and we act inter and we
interact one-on-one, I think it will it
will
[Music]
um help create a lot of this uh help
avoid a lot of this uh problems we've
been having
with other boards.
Any further discussion?
All those in favor? I
opposed. No. Uh anyone else out there?
So 4 to one, we'll have a meeting on
Thursday.
Okay, let's move
on. So we have approval of the minute,
the meeting minutes A, B, C, D, E. I
believe that they were all in our
packet. The only issue that I really
have is on the first special meeting or
the regular meeting
that you know there was just
notification that a vote failed and they
were not identified who voted and it was
really it was two two. So I don't think
we really need to go into it but that is
something that I've noticed from the
previous minutes that I've read that
they don't sit there and identify who
voted in which direction.
But I'll make a motion that we approve
all of the meeting minutes for the 210
special meeting, the 210 regular
meeting, the 225 special meeting, 310
regular meeting, and 326 special me.
I'll second that, Jeff. Go ahead. Go
ahead. Be before we get to discussion,
the one thing I wanted to tell you is
that when we record meetings,
uh, Zoom pretty much only records in the
person who's speaking mode. So, the
person taking the minutes has a very
hard time understanding who voted what
based on the recording. Because if you
just raise your hand and you don't
physically say anything and it's not
heard loudly, everybody else on the
screen can see you raised your hand, but
you can't
necessarily. So, um, okay. And so, so in
the future, what I'll do is I will sit
there and announce the vote. That would
be awesome. To assist. All right. That's
fine.
Then the question is on the appointment
of a new uh there was one on the 310
meeting which Marina said she didn't she
couldn't hear the recording and she
didn't know uh what and it's it's fine
understood and and I will I will do a
better job of announcing who voted for
what so that the individual doing the
minutes has an easier time of doing it.
Awesome. All right.
Um, so Scott, did you second that? Yes.
Okay. So, further discussion on the
minutes? Anybody have any changes they
want to make?
Are they going to correct the
um February 10th regular meeting
minutes where um the vote for Carol, it
said that it was unanimous, but it was
two to two.
Carol's on our board now. I'm good with
it.
I know. But if you're going to correct
minutes, make them right. We We There's
There's too many to correct. So, I'm
ready to approve
it. Anybody else? Okay. All those in
favor? I I I I Okay, Scott. I know. I'll
get to it. Carol of Saint. So, uh it is
401 Jeff Magcguire, Scott Person, Jeff
Murray, and Anne Cre voted in favor and
Carol Lee
abstain. Okay. So, that's how we'll do
it in the future. Eric, that's okay.
Perfect. All right. Um uh so in our
details we have the treasures
report. Any questions uh related to the
treasures report?
So we're threearters of the way through
the budget year. If you want I'm
prepared to go through all the budget to
actuals. I've got a bunch of notes but
it's also 10 o'clock and you have an
executive session. So my question for
you is, do you want to go through this
or do you want to not go through this?
Do you have any specific line items that
are problematic that we need to look at?
Uh,
besides the lunchon item.
Yes. So the tax collector salary for the
tax collector uh is not over yet but
definitely will be over by the end of
the year. Um as you guys remembered when
we made a contract with the tax
collector. We uh put different hourly
rates in based on how many of the CCM
uh you know tests um and percentage of
the way through the program that she
passed. So basically she's been going
through faster than we anticipated last
year. So her hourly weight rate um which
matches the union contract but is more
than we expected at this point. not
something we can't uh accommodate
overall. We can probably even
accommodate that within the tax
collector's budget, but uh that one is
um that's the only other one. I mean, in
terms of things that are actually
overbudgeted now by department, the only
kind of department line item that is
fully overbudget is the advertising
uh budget and that was because we had so
many public notices for the board of
selectmen vacancy. Um so that one is
over overall on the budget. Um I'm happy
to answer any questions that you've got
about specifics on the budget.
How much over are we on the tax
collector salary line, please? Uh, we're
not over now. How much will we be over?
I think we're going to be over somewhere
around $3,000 total. And did you take
that into account for next year's budget
so that we're
not short next year? We did. We update
based on where she is now in the
schedule, assuming that she passes each
of the two tests that will be available
to her next year. The problem is, you
know, I don't know exactly when. It's
somewhat hard to predict because her
salary is going to change throughout the
year based on the testing schedule.
Okay. All right. Because she just has a
couple more tests to go through, right,
before she's certified. Okay. Well, but
there's actually a waiting period before
she can actually be certified. So,
she'll complete all the requirements,
but then there's an experience
requirement that she will still have to
meet. So, we won't be at the full salary
level for another year and a half, two
years, something like that. Okay. Thank
you.
Yep. And there's really nothing left in
her budget. I mean, because that
software piece is going to go. The
largest component of the tax collector's
budget is that remains is the software.
Yeah. I I don't actually know when that
one
hits. Um, so there's a good chance it
will.
Yeah. Okay.
And then my working assumption is that
whatever fines we do get from
uh from OSHA
violations, we're probably going to
expend out of the contingency. But
overall, we look pretty good on the
budget. Um there are definitely more
things that we look like we're going to
be over overall. Um and on the revenue
side, we're looking pretty good. Um
we're still short about a million
dollars in ECS funding. Um but we've
done a great job with tax collection
thanks to Kate, frankly. Um, and so
overall I think revenues were going to
come in over um because we also had more
uh revenues from the supplemental grand
list that we were than we normally get.
So I think the revenues are going to be
good. I think we're going to we're going
to bring this budget in well under
overall. Um obviously there are some
things that will be over, but overall I
think we're in good shape. Planning and
zoning. Yeah. Legal fees. Yep. So, it
looks it looks like we will potentially
have a settlement in place prior to the
end of the year, in which case we will
be recouping all our legal fees. That
that's basically our uh fight, not
fight, our lawsuit with the owner of the
gravel pit on Route Six. um that's been
chewing up an awful lot of legal fees,
but that should all be recoverable. Um
not guaranteeing it's recoverable in
this year, but if it's not recoverable
by July 1, we should be able to get that
back um at some point in the next fiscal
year. But that appears to be the only
line that's actually over budget right
now.
Uh, no. There there's a couple lines
that's over budget
but recoverable. The other one that is
over budget is the little line for the
advertising the advertising fee.
Understood. Anyone else have any other
questions related to the treasures
reports? Okay.
Um item item 12 is the tax collector's
reports. Any questions related to the
collections? So we have one one
large transaction coming due actually
now.
Right. This is our big month. Our last
big month. Yes. Correct. This is our
last big month in the budget. There are
in collections for the tax collectors.
Correct.
Okay. All right.
There is one tax refund
uh for
$66 to trap Jun.
I'll make a I'll make a motion that we
approve a
$66 tax
refund for the month of April.
I'll second that, Jeff. All right.
Further discussion on the tax
refund. All those in favor? I I I
Ann, are you locked?
Ann is asleep.
She's having computer problems. She's
having computer problem. All right. Um
so we're going to sit there and say that
that vote was
41 and that um Ann was the one who
abstained. Oh, there you are. She came
back for a second and then she
disappeared. Then she disappeared. Okay.
Um so let's move on to Carol's in her
place.
Um, so now we're moving on to department
reports. Um, anyone have any questions
related to any of the departmental
reports that were provided? The burning
permit. I wonder you think Scott could
uh put in the location of the
burning and when he does his report,
Eric, is that a problem or is that a lot
to ask?
I don't know that it's a lot to ask. I
just don't know whether people want to
publicize the fact that Well, because I
saw around town a couple of different
places people were burning and I was
just wondering if they were they had
permits.
Okay. Is that something we could kind of
link with permit link or or or another
thing on site? So, one thing online so
we could uh
verify like a resident sees somebody
burning. Do they have a permit to burn?
I don't know. If you look on page 90, he
does have listed the two the names of
the two people for this month that
Right. But it doesn't have an address.
I I know it doesn't have an address, but
it has person's name. An address would
be helpful even more than a name.
Okay. I mean, I've used per I've used
permanent link a ton of times to look up
to see if somebody's had something open
or not.
Well, those those So, that was the first
quarter.
Okay. Yeah. So, Eric, let's sit there.
Let's sit there and see what we might be
able to do in the future to improve
visibility on it because obviously a
burning permit is different from a lot
of other things. Um,
yeah, but it's still a permit and it
should, you know, it it may fall under
permit link. It may be a we may be able
to put it in there. Yeah, I I agree. I
like it. I like the idea. But that
that's also going to increase the cost.
I mean, right now we've had a lot of
people complain about what we're
charging them right now. If we add it
into permit link, you know, we're going
to whack them another 15 bucks for every
application.
Um, and I don't know whether permit
link's going to be too excited about
writing an algorithm for something where
we get three or four permits per year.
Per year. I think they're gonna Why
don't Why don't you ask permit link if
they actually have it from any other
municipality or any other town? Sure. to
see if I'm I'm sure it's been asked. So,
okay. Um, anybody else have any other
questions on any other reports? The
building department, public
works.
Okay.
Um, let's see. Let's go away from that
and go
um item 14 is correspondence. We got
some uh information regarding
uh the
250th national celebration and some of
the information related to the Roshinbo
Trail and some of the other things,
right? Um, and you have to collect a per
a
uh autographed uh copy of something,
right? Yeah. Put on your wall. Put on my
wall. That's exactly what I'm looking to
do. Um, uh, we should sit down. It would
look good with your It would look good
with your deer, Jeff. My dear? Yes. My
My friends corrugated uh deer and uh a
rug alligator and Yes. Yes. and I'm
standing at a at a dresser because I
have no where else to do this. So, yes,
I'm excited.
Um, since I just saw that, I think we
should look at that. I do think
that, you know, the one thing that
Andover does have is has a significant
amount of history related to the
revolutionary war that we should
probably try to uh take advantage of and
uh bring some positive news to the town.
So, I will sit there and look at that.
Anyone else can sit there and look at
that. Maybe that is something that we
attempt to do. But I did notice that one
of the organizations was looking to get
paid some kind of fee for participation.
So, um I did not have if you want to go
to their party.
Yes. I I'm ready to go to Philadelphia
to to be down there in the uh the
constitutional hall and celebrate that,
you know, Ro Shambo came through our
town. I like our wall in the town hall
that that depicts the the march through
the town of Andover. Um, in talking
about that, has anyone ever found the
the pictures that were on the wall of
our old first select menu that were they
ever recovered? Anybody? No. Nobody
knows where they are. We're not. No.
Okay. All righty. I will look at that
and I'll report back to you guys next
meeting.
Um, item 15, executive session with the
board of finance regarding a union
issue. Um, but
No. Yeah. Do you want to move public
speak up? Public speak. Yeah, we're
going to do public speak. So um let's um
that's Dennis. So Diane Graner number
one.
Oh, there I am. You can hear me?
Um it's a late night. I'm I'll keep it
short. Um, basically I just want to say
um I'm always delighted when the board
of selectman does stuff that delights me
and there are two things that um made me
very happy this evening and one was um
the fact that um Jay Tuttle is going to
stay with us for another two years. I
think that's a a wonderful thing. I'm um
happy to see that he's going to give up
his retirement for us. Um, I think that
Jay Tuttle is definitely a jewel in the
crown of Andover and um, like I say, I'm
delighted to see that he's going to stay
with us. That's a that's a good thing
for the town. Uh, the other thing is I'm
glad that the board of selectman is
going to have a meeting with um, the
director um of the community senior
center. I think that's a a great thing
for you to all have that conversation as
to what what she does, what she needs,
and um I I think that uh you'll be
impressed with uh all that she does. So,
two two things that I'm delighted with
from the meeting. Uh thank you very much
everybody for your time. I know it's a
late night, so good night. Thank you,
Liz Latch.
I'm uh I'm fine. Thank you. Okay,
Kimberly Pan,
I'm all set. Thank you, Joanne Eert.
Yep. Real quick, just um I know we're
going to meet in a minute, but this is
in regards to something that Eric had
said earlier. Um, I know that I had
pointed out um a possible accounting and
um clerical error in the budget
spreadsheet for next year which could
result in significant savings for the
town, you know, without hurting anybody
since it's an overage and I know that
Eric kind of directed that it needs to
remain because we had already presented
it to the town meeting. Um I had asked
the town attorney or asked for
clarification
um if you know when he was present in
the meeting I didn't go on my own that
he had said if there's a scrivener's
error which I did have to look up even
though I had a feeling of what it was
you know it's a clerical error that
someone put in by mistake um and as long
as the rest of the board of finance
agrees which you know that would have to
be you know I can't say they're all
going to agree with
But I would think they'd agree that an
overage should go back to the taxpayers.
So just a just a comment on that. I
think that if it does turn out to be a
clerical error that put in the wrong
amount in a bunch of cells that that can
indeed go back um you know it can be
reduced but that can be I just wanted to
say that. Thank you.
Uh Luis Goodwin.
Yes. I actually have a a question about
the open burn
permit guidelines. I went online and it
doesn't answer my question. If you're
having a regular cookout or if you if
you're kind of um burning up some
branches and stuff like that in an
outdoor fireplace, do you need a permit
a permit for that?
The answer is if you're if you have a
regular fire pit and you're burning
small quantities of wood in a
recreational manner, that does not
require a burn pit permit. If you're
doing it with the purpose of getting rid
of brush in your yard, that does require
a burn permit. You're not allowed to
burn greenwood because it smokes too
much and you're not allowed to burn
leaves. Um there's some fairly strict
regulations about what size stuff you
can burn. Okay, good to know that. Thank
you. Bob Hamburg or
I'm all set for now. Thank you. All
right, test.
right. Did I miss
anyone? All right.
Um, I'll make a motion that we go into
executive session and invite the town
attorney and uh Eric Anderson into
uh the meeting
and you have to formally invite the
board of finance also. Oh, I'm sorry.
And the board of finance members that
are on the phone call or on the the
meeting. Somebody second that. Let's go.
Second. Second. Um, so who seconded
that? Yeah, I'm not Scott second that.
Okay, Scott second that. All those in
favor? I I
5 nothing. Okay, Eric, if you could uh
stop
the Okay, we're coming out of executive
session at 10:53 p.m. Um, no decisions
are were need to be made. We're not
going to vote on anything. I make a
motion to adjurnn. Seconded.
Seconded by Jeff Murray. All those in
favor? I I. Five to nothing. Everyone
voted in favor. Thank you very much.
Have a good night. Good night, everyone.
Good night.